
List of Warriors characters
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
For characters in the American crime-related media franchise, see List of The Warriors characters.
This article is being considered for deletion in accordance with Wikipedia's deletion policy.
Please share your thoughts on the matter at this article's deletion discussion page.
Feel free to improve the article, but this notice must not be removed until the discussion is closed, and the article must not be blanked. For more information, particularly on merging or moving the article during the discussion, read the guide to deletion.
Find sources: "List of Warriors characters" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR

This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article may be too long to read and navigate comfortably. (May 2015)
This article may contain an excessive amount of intricate detail that may interest only a particular audience. (October 2019)
The Warriors novel series is written by Erin Hunter. Due to the large number of characters present in the novel series, this list is divided by Clan, e.g., all characters in ThunderClan (as of The Silent Thaw) are put together in the allegiances list.


Contents
1	Naming convention
2	ThunderClan
2.1	Bluestar's Prophecy
2.2	Original Series
2.3	The New Prophecy Series
2.4	Power of Three Series
2.5	Omen of the Stars Series
2.6	Minor ThunderClan characters
3	RiverClan
3.1	Crookedstar's Promise
3.2	Warriors (Original Series)
3.3	The New Prophecy Series
3.4	The Power Of Three
3.5	Minor RiverClan characters
4	WindClan
4.1	Heatherstar
4.2	Hawkheart
4.3	Warriors (Original Series)
4.4	The New Prophecy Series
4.5	Power of Three Series
4.6	Minor WindClan characters
5	ShadowClan
5.1	Warriors (original series)
5.2	The New Prophecy Series
5.3	Power of Three
5.4	A Vision of Shadows
5.5	Minor ShadowClan characters
6	SkyClan
6.1	Current SkyClan
6.2	Former SkyClan members
6.3	Ancient SkyClan cats
6.4	Minor SkyClan characters
7	BloodClan
7.1	Bone
7.2	Scourge
7.3	Ice
7.4	Snake
7.5	Brick
7.6	Snipe
7.7	Gremlin
7.8	Scraps
7.9	Fury
8	StarClan
9	The Place of No Stars/The Dark Forest
10	The Tribe of Rushing Water
10.1	Stormfur
10.2	Brook Where Small Fish Swim
10.3	Talon of Swooping Eagle
10.4	Teller of the Pointed Stones
10.5	Crag Where Eagles Nest
11	Ancient cats
11.1	Ancient Clan conventions
11.2	Power of Three Series
11.3	Dawn of the Clans
12	The Sisters
12.1	Moonlight
12.2	Snow
12.3	Other members
13	Characters not in other groups
13.1	Original Series
13.2	The New Prophecy Series
13.3	Power of Three Series
13.4	Omen of the stars
13.5	A Vision of Shadows Series
13.6	The Rise of Scourge
13.7	Graystripe's Adventure Trilogy
13.8	Tigerstar and Sasha's Trilogy
13.9	Ravenpaw's Path
14	References
Naming convention
In ThunderClan, RiverClan, WindClan, ShadowClan, and SkyClan, each cat's name has a prefix (Dawn, Bramble, Lion, Crow, and so on). As a kit they will have, "-kit" at the end of their name (Dawnkit, Bramblekit, Lionkit, Crowkit, and so on). When they become an apprentice, "-paw" will replace "-kit" at the end of their name (Dawnpaw, Bramblepaw, Lionpaw, Crowpaw, and so on). When that cat is made a warrior or medicine cat, the suffix to their name will be changed to a suffix chosen by the Clan leader (Dawnpelt, Brambleclaw, Lionblaze, Crowfeather, and so on). If a cat ever becomes a leader, they will be granted the suffix "-star" at the end of their name (Dawnstar, Bramblestar, Lionstar, Crowstar, and so on).

In The Tribe of Rushing Water, cat's names have no set prefixes or suffixes. A cat's mother will name her kitten(s) after the first memorable thing the mother sees after giving birth (for example, "Brook Where Small Fish Swim" and "Night of No Stars").

ThunderClan
ThunderClan is named after its first leader and founder, Thunder. In the Warriors series (except the sub-series Dawn Of The Clans), most of the protagonists are ThunderClan cats. During the original series, ThunderClan resides in the forest, sandwiched between RiverClan and ShadowClan territory. As such, ThunderClan cats are accustomed to stalking through the thick underbrush of the forest.[1]

ThunderClan, along with the other Clans, undergoes a dramatic shift in territory during the course of The New Prophecy arc. During the time that Brambleclaw, Squirrelpaw, and their travelling companions are on their journey to find Midnight the badger, much of ThunderClan's territory is destroyed as humans proceed with deforestation of the area.[2]:320 Eventually, ThunderClan and the other Clans relocate to the lake territory, where the ThunderClan camp is set in an abandoned quarry. The camp is protected by high walls of stone, but the surrounding territory is similar to the forest which ThunderClan previously inhabited.[3]

Bluestar's Prophecy
Pinestar
A red-brown tom with green eyes, Pinestar is the leader of ThunderClan when Bluestar is born. His warrior name is Pineheart. When he only has one of his nine lives remaining, he decides to step down as leader and become a kittypet, having become disillusioned with the violence and fragility of Clan life. Despite leaving the Clans, he is accepted by StarClan when he eventually loses his last life.[citation needed]

Sunstar
Sunstar, a bright ginger tom with green eyes and yellow tabby stripes, is the leader of ThunderClan before Bluestar. His warrior name is Sunfall. He mentors Bluepaw after her first mentor, Stonepelt, retires early to the elder's den due to an injury that did not heal properly. Sunstar becomes leader of ThunderClan when Pinestar steps down to leave the Clans and become a kittypet. However, because Pinestar still has one of his nine lives when Sunstar becomes leader, StarClan gives him only eight lives instead of the usual nine, a secret he keeps from the Clan due to his fear they would feel he did not fully have StarClan's support. When Sunstar's first deputy, Tawnyspots, retires early due to sickness, Sunstar selects Bluefur to become deputy instead of the ambitious Thistleclaw, fearing Thistleclaw's violent tendencies and impressed by Bluefur's selflessness in the face of multiple personal losses. Sunstar ultimately dies when he is unable to outrun a dog, having been weakened by sickness. His brother is Featherwhisker, ThunderClan's medicine cat before Spottedleaf.[4]

Moonflower
Moonflower is a silver-grey tabby queen with pale yellow eyes, mother of Bluestar and Snowfur. Early in Bluestar's life, Moonflower and other ThunderClan warriors participate in an attack on the WindClan camp, during which Moonflower is killed by WindClan's medicine cat Hawkheart when she attacks their medicine supplies. Moonflower's mate is Stormtail, and she is sister to Goosefeather. She is also grandmother to Stonefur, Mistystar, and Mosskit.[4]

Snowfur
Snowfur is a snowy white queen with blue eyes and black ear tips. She is daughter to Moonflower and Stormtail, and is the sister of Bluestar (Bluefur). She and Bluestar have a strong sibling bond which is threatened when Snowfur falls in love with Thistleclaw and Bluefur disapproves. She has one kit with Thistleclaw, Whitekit. Snowfur dies when she is hit by a Twoleg monster (motor vehicle) while chasing ShadowClan intruders across the Thunderpath (road), which precipitates another episode of grief for Bluefur, who had previously grieved significantly over the loss of their mother. At Bluestar's leader ceremony, Snowfur's spirit bestows upon Bluestar her ninth life and the gift of pride, so that she knows her own worth and the worth of her Clan.[4] Snowfur narrates a story in Secrets of the Clans about Mosskit, Bluefur's kit who dies in Bluestar's Prophecy.[5]

Thistleclaw
Thistleclaw is a large, grey-and-white patched tom with amber eyes. Bluestar suggests his name due to his spiky fur when they are both kits in the nursery. He is hot-headed and aggressive, making his relationship with the more reserved Bluestar quite difficult. He is also the mate of Bluestar's sister, Snowfur, and father of Whitestorm, Bluestar's nephew. He is also the mentor of Tigerpaw and one of the causes of Tigerstar's evil and ambitious motives. Thistleclaw at first seems only arrogant and not interested in the long run of things, but later on, it is shown that he is paranoid and bloodthirsty, and wants to keep other Clans out of ThunderClan territory by "marking the borders with blood". In Crookedstar's Promise, Crookedjaw witnesses his training in the Dark Forest. He is characterized as highly violent, which was shown when he orders his apprentice, Tigerpaw, to attack the young Tiny (later Scourge), who had walked into ThunderClan, not knowing about the Clans, as described in the manga The Rise of Scourge and the super edition Bluestar's Prophecy.[6] Goosefeather has a vision with Bluefur and sees Thistleclaw's pelt dripping in blood, symbolizing the trail of death that he would leave if he ever ascended to leader.

When Thistleclaw dies, he is found with claws unsheathed, lips in a snarl, and lying in a pool of his own blood, just as Bluestar and Goosefeather saw in their shared vision. In Night Whispers, he is shown as managing the training session in the Dark Forest. In Sign of the Moon, he kills the living cat Antpelt during training.

Goosefeather
Goosefeather is a speckled grey tom with pale blue eyes and brother of Moonflower. He was the medicine cat of ThunderClan when Bluestar was born and interprets a piece of prey (a vole with its fur bent over like a forest being blown down by wind) as a warning from StarClan that WindClan will destroy ThunderClan. He suggests that the only way to stop this was to destroy WindClan's medicine supplies; in the ensuing battle, his sister is murdered and many cats are injured, with Stonepelt's injuries forcing him to retire early. Several cats, including his niece Bluestar, blame him for the results of the battle. He was the mentor of Featherwhisker, the medicine cat before Spottedleaf. He interprets a burning branch as an omen that Bluestar is fire and will burn through the ranks of ThunderClan, but will be destroyed by water. After that, Goosefeather seems to go insane. He sees Tigerkit as a dangerous monster (ironically, though no cat believed him, this proves to be true), and that Thistleclaw will lead ThunderClan to a path of blood if he becomes leader. Although many cats think Goosefeather is insane, some of his omens and prophecies are true. He even tells Bluefur that she has to give up her kits to save ThunderClan, which she reluctantly does so. At Bluestar's leader ceremony, he gave to her the gift of patience.

Featherwhisker
Featherwhisker is a pale silvery tom with amber eyes, long whiskers, and a sweeping, plumy tail. He is Goosefeather's apprentice when Bluekit is born and becomes Spottedleaf's mentor. He is more trusted in ThunderClan than his mentor Goosefeather, who was viewed as eccentric, and is often asked to help with tasks that Goosefeather should be helping with instead. He works tirelessly to treat his Clanmates during a greencough outbreak and ultimately dies of greencough himself. After his death, Spottedleaf becomes ThunderClan's medicine cat. Featherwhisker is Sunstar's brother.[5]

Leopardfoot
Leopardfoot is a sleek black queen with green eyes. She was introduced in Bluestar's Prophecy as a kit. Her parents are Adderfang and Swiftbreeze. She is sister of Patchpelt, Redtail, Willowpelt, and Spottedleaf, mate of Pinestar, and mother of Mistkit and Nightkit (both died soon after birth), and Tigerkit, later known as Tigerstar. She gave Tigerkit his tough name because he was the weakest of the litter. Her mate, Pinestar, left the Clan to be a kittypet (housecat) shortly before Mistkit and Nightkit's deaths.[4]

Swiftbreeze
Swiftbreeze is a tabby and white queen with yellow eyes. She is introduced in Bluestar's Prophecy as a queen who likes to brag about her kits, commenting, for example, that her kits opened their eyes sooner than Bluekit. She is mother to Leopardfoot, Patchpelt, Willowpelt, Spottedleaf, and Redtail, mate to Adderfang, grandmother to Tigerstar, and great-grandmother to Bramblestar, Hawkfrost, Mothwing, and Tawnypelt.

Thrushpelt
Thrushpelt is a sandy-grey tom with a white flash on his chest and green eyes. He was a newly appointed warrior when Bluestar was a kit. He had a crush on Bluestar and everyone took notice, leading the Clan to believe he was the father of Stonefur, Mistystar, and Mosskit. Thrushpelt knew that the kits were not his, but kept Bluestar's secret until his death even though he never knew who their real father was. Bluestar told him that she knew she would have been happy with him.[4]

Mosskit
Mosskit is a pale-gray-and-white she-cat with blue eyes. She is the sister of Mistystar, also known as Mistyfoot, and Stonefur, and the kit of Bluestar and Oakheart. In Bluestar's Prophecy Mosskit freezes to death on the way to RiverClan. Bluefur buries her in the dirt below the snow so Mosskit is not eaten by foxes when the winter thaws. In Bluestar's Prophecy, she gives her mother a life as she becomes ThunderClan's leader after Sunstar.[4] She also appears in Secrets of the Clans and The Last Hope.

Original Series
The original series covers events in the story from Into the Wild to The Darkest Hour. Many characters mentioned here were introduced in the original series, but many of them play minor or significant roles in The New Prophecy and Power of Three series as well. Characters listed in the other series may have been introduced in the original series, but play larger roles in the series they are listed in.

Firestar
Firestar, a handsome flame-colored tom with green eyes,[7] is the protagonist of the original series. Initially a kittypet named Rusty, he often dreamed of hunting for his own prey in the forest beyond his owner's house (thus making him venture into the forest beyond his fence and garden). Rusty joins ThunderClan after encountering Graypaw, when he was caught trying to hunt prey in ThunderClan territory, and is initially established as an apprentice, being renamed Firepaw for his flame-colored pelt. Throughout the series, Firepaw gains respect within the Clan and eventually receives his warrior name of Fireheart at the end of Into the Wild, along with his best friend, Graypaw, renamed Graystripe. Fireheart is appointed as ThunderClan's deputy at the end of Forest of Secrets and becomes ThunderClan's leader, Firestar, at the beginning of The Darkest Hour, after the former leader, Bluestar, dies. Before Bluestar dies, she tells Fireheart that she was right about him, and that he was the "fire" in the prophecy, “Fire alone can save the Clan”, which she was told before he joined ThunderClan.

Firestar was mentored by Bluestar (and, for a short time, Lionheart and Tigerclaw), and has mentored three apprentices himself: Cinderpelt, who later becomes a medicine cat apprentice due to an accident that permanently injures her leg; Cloudtail, his nephew through his sister Princess; and Brambleclaw, who later succeeds him in ThunderClan's leadership as Bramblestar.

Fireheart met Princess when she was heavily pregnant in Fire and Ice. When her kittens were born, she let Firestar have her firstborn kit to be raised as a warrior with him to ThunderClan, where Bluestar named him Cloudkit.

Firestar does not possess any significant character flaws and is fully committed to the warrior code. Only sometimes will he bend the rules to help his Clan. Firestar is fiercely loyal not only to his Clan, but also to his many friends and allies that he meets along the way, regardless of their affiliation. He respects the rules of his superiors, but also has the insight to look beyond them in order to properly judge a questionable situation. As a result, he often breaks the traditional rules of the Clan (a trend started by his very inclusion into the Clan, being of house cat, or kittypet origins) in order to help his friends or rectify a situation he believes to be right. He is primarily responsible, along with his friend Graystripe, for several feats that have ensured the well-being of all the Clans, such as retrieving WindClan after they were driven out of their camp in Fire and Ice,[8] and hunting prey for RiverClan when they were damaged and forced to move out of their territory in a flood. In A Dangerous Path, he professes his long-time love for Sandstorm, who is revealed to love him back.[9] He struggled with feelings for Spottedleaf, who died in Into the Wild. As a warrior, Fireheart earned Bluestar's disapproval for frequently helping the other Clans.

He leads LionClan, an alliance of all four Clans, in battle against BloodClan in The Darkest Hour, and kills BloodClan's leader, Scourge. Firestar appoints Graystripe as deputy after the battle against BloodClan in The Darkest Hour after Whitestorm, the former deputy, was killed during the battle.[10]

Firestar remains leader of ThunderClan through the subsequent series The New Prophecy, Power of Three, and Omen of the Stars. In between the original series and The New Prophecy, he travels with his mate, Sandstorm, to reunite the lost and scattered descendants of SkyClan in Firestar's Quest.[11]

He has two daughters with his beloved and long-time mate, Sandstorm: Leafpool and Squirrelflight. Firestar's father is a plump ginger tom called Jake, who is also the father of Princess, Luna, Tommy, Filou, Ruby, Socks, and Scourge. Firestar's mother is a tabby and white she-cat named Nutmeg. Princess is Firestar's sister, and her son, Cloudtail is Firestar's nephew. He is grandfather to Hollyleaf, Lionblaze, Jayfeather (Leafpool and Crowfeather's forbidden kits), Alderheart, Sparkpelt, Juniperkit, and Dandelionkit (Squirrelflight and Bramblestar's kits). He is also great grandfather to Lionblaze's kits, Hollytuft, Sorrelstripe, and Fernsong.

In The Last Hope, Spottedleaf tells Jayfeather that Firestar is the fourth cat in the prophecy "The end of the stars draws near. Three must become four to defeat the darkness that lasts forever". At the novel's climax, Firestar loses his last life after defeating the spirit of Tigerstar.

Bluestar
Bluestar is a large, lithe, pale blue-gray she-cat with luminous, ice-blue eyes and a silver-tinted muzzle and tail. She was the leader of ThunderClan when Firestar (then known as Firepaw) first came to the forest which was during most of the original series. She is responsible for bringing Firestar into ThunderClan, a decision prompted by the alarmingly low number of apprentices in her Clan, and the prophecy "Fire alone can save our Clan". Bluestar serves as Firestar's mentor during his apprenticeship following a short time when Firestar is mentored by the senior warriors,[1] and eventually appoints him as her deputy after Tigerstar's exile(after he betrayed her). She is known as a strong, wise and calm leader.

Bluestar fell in love with Oakheart, a RiverClan warrior and brother to Crookedstar, during her days as a warrior (when she was named Bluefur, as seen in The Rise of Scourge and Bluestar's Prophecy). During this time another warrior of ThunderClan (Thrushpelt, as seen in Bluestar's Prophecy) began to show interest in her. She bore three of Oakheart's kits, but let the Clan believe Thrushpelt was the father, and Thrushpelt was kind enough to pretend for her. Out of her concern to the Clan, she decided to become Clan deputy instead of the violent Thistleclaw, but since she knew the Clan would never accept a queen nursing kits for a deputy, she secretly gave her kits to Oakheart to be raised in RiverClan. Only Mistykit and Stonekit made it to RiverClan; Mosskit did not survive the journey because of the cold.

After she gave them up and returned to the camp, she scratched a hole on the back of the nursery wall, went back to her nest, and then screamed "My kits are gone!", so that the rest of the Clan would think that her kits were stolen by a starving fox or badger. Bluestar is able to suppress her feelings regarding her decision until Firestar, seeking to uncover the truth about Tigerclaw's deception, causes the issue to be reopened. Her feelings of regret, combined with the shock of discovering her trusted deputy's plan to kill her, cause Bluestar to sink into a manic depression. She remains in this condition throughout the events of Rising Storm and A Dangerous Path, which worsens when the forest fire destroys the ThunderClan camp. She refuses to trust any of her warriors except Fireheart and Whitestorm, and declares war on StarClan for dooming her Clan, saying that StarClan had said fire would save the Clan, and instead fire had destroyed it. Her faith is restored in the final moments of A Dangerous Path, when in a dramatic scene she crashes into the leader of a pack of dogs, causing them to fall over the edge of the gorge and into the river. She dies shortly afterward after confiding in Fireheart that he truly was the "fire" that saved the Clan. Before she dies, her kits forgive her for giving them up to RiverClan.

Bluestar retains an authoritative role in StarClan during the events of The New Prophecy and Power of Three series. She chose the chosen one from ThunderClan (Brambleclaw). She also reluctantly told Firestar about SkyClan in Firestar's Quest.

Bluestar has two kits, Mistystar and Stonefur, in RiverClan, and is mentioned in Secrets of the Clans as having a third, Mosskit, who died young during the journey to RiverClan with her littermates due to the extreme cold. Currently Mistystar is the leader of RiverClan, while Stonefur, the previous deputy, was killed in The Darkest Hour by Blackfoot and on Tigerstar's orders, because he was "half-Clan". She also has a sister named Snowfur. Whitestorm is Snowfur's son, thus making him Bluestar's nephew. Her maternal uncle was Goosefeather, the medicine cat before Featherwhisker. Goosefeather gave to Bluestar her own prophecy, "Like fire you will blaze through the forest, but beware even the strongest of flames can be destroyed by water". The prophecy meant that Bluestar's life would be destroyed by the pain of giving up her half-RiverClan kits and it can also mean that she'd die from being drowned in the river. Although Bluestar initially thought Goosefeather's prophecy her being fire and being defeated by water to be nonsense, Bluestar was indeed killed by water.

Bluestar was first mentored by Stonepelt, but after he was forced to retire due to an injury he got from battle against WindClan, Sunfall took over her training. After Yellowfang's capture, she mentors Firestar. She has also mentored Runningwind and Frostfur. Her sister was named Snowfur, her mother was named Moonflower, and her father was named Stormtail.

Graystripe
Graystripe is a long-haired gray tom with a dark gray stripe along his back, and yellow eyes. He has also been mentioned with eyes the color amber, and green. He is Firestar's first and best friend in ThunderClan. He meets Rusty in the forest close to Rusty's kittypet home and proceeds to attack him as if he were any other intruder. When Rusty joins ThunderClan as Firepaw, the two become great friends and often train and eat together. Graypaw's mentor was Lionheart, who was killed in Into the Wild. He becomes a warrior soon after the battle with ShadowClan to rescue ThunderClan kits with Firepaw at the end of Into the Wild.

Shortly after being promoted to a full warrior (he was named "Graystripe" because there is a gray stripe running down his back that is darker than the rest of his gray fur), Graystripe falls in love with a RiverClan she-cat, Silverstream, after she saves him from drowning, and starts to sneak out of camp to meet her. His friendship with Fireheart is strained due to Fireheart's need to cover for him while he is away, which included mentoring Graystripe's apprentice Brackenpaw in his place, and for a short time the two quarrel with each other. Eventually Graystripe is able to settle his issues with Fireheart, and their friendship continues. Graystripe eventually leaves ThunderClan to live in RiverClan after Silverstream dies, but returns when Bluestar leads dogs that Tigerstar set on the clan off the gorge.[12] In the end of the original series, he becomes ThunderClan's deputy, due to Whitestorm's death,[10] but is replaced by Brambleclaw when he was captured in Dawn.[13]

Graystripe is a friendly, hearty character, serving as a comic relief character to some degree. He often makes quips or jokes in order to provide relief to a tense situation, but is able to focus himself during battles and concentrate on the objective at hand. He does not have any qualms about killing hated enemies of the Clan, and is responsible for the deaths of Darkstripe and also the accidental death of Whiteclaw, who fell off a gorge, Graystripe being unable to save him.

Graystripe has lived in more locations than any other cat in the series. When Silverstream died bearing his kits, Feathertail and Stormfur, Graystripe went to live with them in RiverClan for a while.[12] He returned to ThunderClan in A Dangerous Path when Leopardstar tried to kill Firestar and Graystripe attacked her and saved him, upon which Leopardstar exiled him from RiverClan.[9] In Dawn of The New Prophecy series, Graystripe was captured by humans, or "Twolegs" and lived as a kittypet for a time, which is described in further detail in The Lost Warrior manga series. While living as a kittypet, Graystripe met Millie, another kittypet, who helped him escape. After a long journey, the two finally returned to the Clans living at the lake. He returned to ThunderClan in The Sight of the Power of Three series, along with Millie as his new mate. He is currently a regular warrior, for Firestar lets Brambleclaw retain his position as deputy. Graystripe sometimes becomes a "substitute" deputy when Brambleclaw is out traveling.

He had two kits with Silverstream, Feathertail and Stormfur who go on to live in RiverClan. They fled to ThunderClan temporarily, along with Feathertail's (then Featherpaw and Stormpaw) mentor, Mistystar (then Mistyfoot), to escape Tigerstar's rule in RiverClan. His father is Patchpelt and his mother is Willowpelt. Feathertail was killed in Moonrise. Graystripe's mate, Millie, gave birth to three kits of her own, Briarlight, Bumblestripe, and Blossomfall in Eclipse. Graystripe has two grandkits, Pine that Clings to Rock and Lark that Sings at Dawn from Stormfur and his mate, Brook Where Small Fish Swim. As of Veil of Shadows, Graystripe is currently an elder.

Sandstorm
Sandstorm is a pale ginger she-cat with green eyes. Sandpaw was an apprentice when Firestar first joins the Clan, and disliked Firepaw for formerly being a kittypet.[1] Eventually, she warms up to Fireheart, a process initiated by Fireheart preventing her from falling over a cliff during a battle in Fire and Ice, thereby saving her life.[8] When Fireheart is forced to take Sandpaw on a patrol mission, she begins to warm up to him, and is unexpectedly friendly and cheerful toward him. Over the course of the series, it becomes obvious that Sandstorm has fallen in love with Fireheart (revealed in Rising Storm by her cousin Cinderpelt),[14] and by The Darkest Hour the two have become mates.[10] Sandstorm is known for having a fierce personality and getting easily annoyed, but is also capable of being gentle, however, as seen by her interactions with Firestar, her children, Squirrelflight and Leafpool, and her grandchildren, Lionblaze, Hollyleaf, and Jayfeather.

She is noted as being the best hunter and one of the fastest runners in ThunderClan, and is an excellent fighter as well, resulting in her being present in many major battles. She was also one of the cats who Firestar chose to be bait for the dog pack thanks to her speed. The specifics regarding her knowledge of Firestar's ongoing relationship with her aunt Spottedleaf, his first love, are shown in Firestar's Quest in which she once again plays a major role, and in which Firestar confirms that he loves Sandstorm above all, and will 'for all the moons to come'. Also, in Cats of The Clans, Rock states that Sandstorm knows Firestar better than he realises, and better even than Spottedleaf, for all the dreams they have shared. She has two daughters, Leafpool and Squirrelflight, as well as three grandchildren, Jayfeather, Hollyleaf and Lionblaze. She is great-grandmother to Lionblaze and Cinderheart's kits, Hollytuft, Sorrelstripe, and Fernsong. They are the kits of Leafpool and Crowfeather as confirmed in The Power of Three. She was mentored by Whitestorm and mentored Sorreltail and Honeyfern. At the end of Bramblestar's Storm, she retires to become an elder. She dies of an infected wound in The Apprentice's Quest.

Redtail is her father and Brindleface is her mother. Ashfur and Ferncloud are her half brother and sister. She's granddaughter to Adderfang and Swiftbreeze (Redtail's parents) and Fuzzypelt and Robinwing (Brindleface's parents). She is niece to Frostfur, Dustpelt, and Ravenpaw (Brindleface's siblings) and Leopardfoot, Spottedleaf, Willowpelt, and Patchpelt (Redtail's siblings). She is cousin to Tigerstar, Mistkit, and Nightkit (Leopardfoot's kits), Graystripe and Longtail (Patchpelt's sons), Sorreltail, Sootfur, Rainwhisker (Willowpelt's kits) and Cinderpelt, Brackenfur, Thornclaw, and Brightheart (Frostfur's kits).

Tigerstar
Tigerstar, a huge, muscular dark brown tabby tom with amber eyes and unusually long front claws, is the main antagonist of the original series and haunts many cats' dreams in The New Prophecy and Power of Three series. He also plays a major role in the Omen of the Stars series, leading the Dark Forest to train Clan cats and leading them into a fight against StarClan and the four Clans, and he threatens them to do so, if they back down.

Tigerstar is born as Tigerkit in ThunderClan, the son Leopardfoot and Pinestar, who leaves ThunderClan to become a house cat (kittypet). His siblings Nightkit and Mistkit, both she-kits, both die shortly after birth.[4] As the apprentice Tigerpaw, he is mentored by Thistleclaw, an ambitious and aggressive cat.[4] Tigerclaw later takes Ravenpaw as an apprentice until Firepaw and Graypaw send Ravenpaw to live with Barley to protect him from Tigerclaw.[1]

His warrior name was Tigerclaw, and he was a senior warrior among the ranks of ThunderClan when Firepaw was brought into the forest. The two never quite get along, and Tigerclaw's hostility towards Fireheart becomes even higher when Fireheart discovers his plan to take over the Clan. Tigerclaw is a master of deception and manipulation, and is able to go through with the death of his uncle, Redtail, (an act he himself committed) as appearing to be the work of Oakheart from RiverClan. By doing so, he plans to become deputy, but Bluestar appoints Lionheart, who is older and more experienced, as her deputy instead. However, when Lionheart later dies from wounds he sustained in a ShadowClan attack in Into the Wild, Tigerclaw becomes deputy, ensuring his eventual place as leader. Having become deputy, he then secretly plots with Brokentail to have Brokentail and his group of rogues kill Bluestar. The plan nearly succeeds, but is foiled by Fireheart; as a result, Tigerclaw is exiled from ThunderClan.

As a rogue, Tigerclaw gathers a band of allies (including ShadowClan warriors Nightwhisper and Blackfoot) and kills Mousefur's brother, Runningwind. Following the death of ShadowClan leader Nightstar, Tigerclaw then persuades ShadowClan to accept him as their new leader, becoming Tigerstar.[14] He then secretly lures a pack of wild dogs into ThunderClan's territory and camp in order to exact revenge on his former Clanmates, leading to the death of Bluestar.[9] Tigerstar then plots to take over the entire forest by employing the services of the ruthless BloodClan in order to intimidate the other Clans into submission. Just as he has betrayed all his other former allies, he intends to betray BloodClan once he has united all the Clans under his rule. However, Tigerstar underestimates the power of Scourge, the undersized black tom who leads BloodClan. When Scourge refuses to obey Tigerstar's order to fight the Clans, Tigerstar furiously attacks him, but Scourge slays him easily by slicing him open from chin to tail with his dog-teeth-reinforced claws. This devastating blow drains all of Tigerstar's nine lives at once, causing him to die nine times over, one life after the other.

In The New Prophecy series, Tigerstar visits his sons Brambleclaw and Hawkfrost in their dreams, preparing them to take over the Clans for him. It is revealed that because of his evil actions he was denied access to StarClan, and was banished to a dark, shadowy forest known as the Dark Forest (also called the Place of No Stars).[15] He visits his two sons, Brambleclaw and Hawkfrost, in their dreams and teaches them battle skills and leadership tactics. While Brambleclaw is hesitant to be influenced by his father, Hawkfrost welcomes his advice and plots to take control of the Clans much in the same way as his father did. Brambleclaw killed Hawkfrost in Sunset.[13]

Tigerstar also plays a role in the Power of Three series as a battle "mentor" to Lionblaze, along with his dead son Hawkfrost. The consequences of his actions do not appear to be causing any harm to the Clans; Lionblaze becomes a masterful fighter under Tigerstar's influence and excels in battle skills far beyond any other apprentice. Whether or not Lionblaze is part of yet another plan hatched by Tigerstar from the shadows remains to be seen, though it appears unlikely. He is able to communicate with living cats; however, StarClan has said that he should not be able to.[citation needed] Lionblaze revolts against Tigerstar in Sunrise after learning that Tigerstar has always known that Squirrelflight wasn't Jayfeather, Hollyleaf, and Lionblaze's mother. Lionblaze is able to defeat him, but refuses to kill him and Tigerstar remains in the Dark Forest.

In The Last Hope, Tigerstar leads the other Dark Forest cats in an attack against the Clans, but his spirit is ultimately killed by Firestar, leading to his fading away permanently.[16]

Tigerstar has taken two mates, Goldenflower and Sasha. He has five direct kits: Tawnypelt and Brambleclaw from Goldenflower, and Mothwing, Hawkfrost, and Tadpole (who drowns while a kit) from Sasha.[17] It is revealed in Firestar's Quest that Tigerstar is a direct descendant of the kits of Birdflight, a SkyClan she-cat who was the mate of Cloudstar, the SkyClan leader, and she sheltered in ThunderClan during SkyClan's exile, with her two kits, Spottedpelt and Gorseclaw, who were at the time, too young to make the journey. This makes him part-SkyClan, along with his aunt Spottedleaf.[11] Through his mother Leopardfoot, his aunts and uncles include Patchpelt, Willowpelt, Spottedleaf, and Redtail.[4] Thus, he is also a cousin to Sorreltail, Sootfur, and Rainwhisker (Willowpelt's kits), Longtail and Graystripe (Patchpelt's kits), and Sandstorm (Redtail's kit). His grandchildren are Flametail, Tigerheart, and Dawnpelt (Tawnypelt's kits).

Cinderpelt
Cinderpelt, a dark grey she-cat with blue eyes, is ThunderClan's medicine cat beginning in the original series, and continuing for a large part of The New Prophecy series. Originally she trains to be a warrior as an apprentice under Fireheart's mentoring, but she is critically injured and therefore crippled by a monster when she stumbles into a trap laid by Tigerclaw for Bluestar, she permanently injures her leg and cannot become a warrior.[8] Soon after she begins training as a medicine cat apprentice under Yellowfang, she receives the title of a full medicine cat in Forest of Secrets (though she is still called Cinderpaw until the beginning of Rising Storm).[12] Cinderpelt is one of Firestar's closest friends throughout the series, and remains his trusted advisor whenever he needs spiritual guidance. Initially overexcited and bouncy, she often overwhelms Firestar as an apprentice and frequently dashes off on her own. After she begins training as a medicine cat, her personality greatly matures and she appears to possess the wisdom of a much older cat. She was in love with Firestar and she never stopped loving him, though Firestar himself never realizes this and Cinderpelt never tells him. Though she always wanted to be a warrior, she accepts her new destiny and dedicates her life to becoming a legendary medicine cat. Cinderpelt tried to save Silverstream while she was giving birth to Graystripe’s kits. She loses Silverstream, but if not for her, the kits (Stormkit and Featherkit, later Stormfur and Feathertail) would have died. However, Cinderpelt blames herself for Silverstream's death.

Cinderpelt is killed in Twilight of The New Prophecy series while defending Sorreltail and her newborn kits in the nursery from a marauding badger. StarClan had originally destined Cinderpelt to be a warrior, and they did not plan on her being caught in Tigerstar's trap on the Thunderpath. As a test of her loyalty, StarClan told Cinderpelt of her impending death in Twilight before it happened, a secret which Cinderpelt kept hidden even when her apprentice, Leafpool, pledged to leave the Clan.

As a reward, Cinderpelt was reincarnated after her death into one of the kits she defended, Cinderheart in the Power of Three series. Cinderheart herself is not aware of this consciously, however she occasionally exhibits knowledge that she cannot explain from her previous life, and knows of her reincarnation in dreams. The implications of this "second life", as well as Cinderpelt's true destiny, have become realized when Jayfeather reveals it to her in a dream. Just before the battle in The Last Hope, Cinderheart chooses to be a warrior and Lionblaze's mate, and Cinderpelt leaves Cinderheart's body, whispering, "Thank you". Cinderpelt was mentored by Yellowfang, and mentored her cousin Sandstorm's daughter Leafpool as her successor. Her mother is Frostfur, which makes Thornclaw and Brightheart her siblings. Her brother, Brackenfur, is the father of Cinderheart, a situation which is slightly confusing given Cinderpelt's reincarnation. This would imply, then, that Cinderpelt's brother is now her father, though the new Cinderheart is still very much an individual cat in her own right. As Cinderpelt has a reincarnation, Cinderheart is related to Bluestar since Sorreltail's father was Whitestorm, who was Bluestar's nephew.

Spottedleaf
Spottedleaf is a beautiful, dark tortoiseshell she-cat, with amber eyes, a white muzzle, white paws, a white chest, a black-tipped tail, and a black, brown, and amber dappled pelt. Her eyes have circles of dark fur around them, and one is darker than the other. She also has a gold-and-black striped tail. She has played some minor and slightly major roles in series to date despite her early death in Into the Wild, after which she appeared in Firestar's dreams. Originally Spottedleaf was ThunderClan's medicine cat at the start of Into the Wild and foretold the original series prophecy "Fire alone can save our Clan". Firestar, when first introduced into the camp, immediately takes a liking to her and it is said that she begins to return his feelings. Unfortunately, she is killed by ShadowClan in an effort to protect the kits in an unfair fight with Clawface and Brokenstar during a raid by ShadowClan near the end of Into the Wild.[1]

Spottedleaf is perhaps the most prominent member of StarClan, often serving as a spiritual guide to the main characters of each series, most notably Firestar, whom she falls in love with over the course of his adventures in the original series. She is often seen as a source of comfort, and presents cryptic warnings and messages to cats notifying them of future events. Being dead, she cannot serve any more prominent roles in the lives of the cats she watches over, a fact that is frequently a source of frustration to her regarding Firestar's budding relationship with her niece Sandstorm. It is revealed that she does indeed wish things were different between them, and continues to love Firestar despite their differences of existence. She accepts her position, however, and acknowledges Sandstorm in a dream of her own in order to reassure the living cat of Firestar's loyalty.[11] Having not found an apprentice by the time of her death, Yellowfang is the new medicine cat when she joins ThunderClan.[1] It is revealed in Firestar's Quest that Spottedleaf is a direct descendant of the kits of Birdflight, a SkyClan she-cat who stayed with ThunderClan during SkyClan's exile. Therefore, she is part-SkyClan and permitted to walk in the skies of SkyClan's warrior ancestors as well as StarClan. The same she-cat that stayed with ThunderClan after SkyClan left also had the ancestor of Tigerstar's line, making Spottedleaf related to Tigerstar, Brambleclaw, Mothwing, Hawkfrost, Tadpole, Tawnypelt, and Tawnypelt's kits Flametail, Dawnpelt, and Tigerheart.[11]

Spottedleaf was mentored by Featherwhisker, the medicine cat before her.[4] She walks in the dreams of Firestar, Leafpool, and Jayfeather. After Spottedleaf died, Yellowfang became the medicine cat, taking Cinderpelt as an apprentice following her accident. Her parents were Adderfang and Swiftbreeze, making her sister to Patchpelt, Leopardfoot, Willowpelt, and Redtail. She is also aunt to Mistkit, Nightkit and Tigerstar (Leopardfoot's kits), Sorreltail, Rainwhisker and Sootfur (Willowpelt's kits), and Sandstorm (Redtail's daughter), and great aunt to Brambleclaw, Tawnypelt, Hawkfrost, Mothwing and Tadpole (Tigerstar's kits), Poppyfrost, Cinderheart, Honeyfern, and Molepaw (Sorreltail's kits), and Leafpool and Squirrelflight (Sandstorm's kits). She is great-great aunt to Tigerheart, Flametail, and Dawnpelt (Tawnypelt's kits), Lionblaze, Hollyleaf, and Jayfeather (Leafpool's kits), and Cherryfall and Molewhisker (Poppyfrost's kits).

In The Last Hope, she and StarClan fight alongside the Ancients, Midnight the badger, and the living Clans. During the fighting, she saves Sandstorm from Mapleshade, but is killed herself in the process. As a StarClan cat, this led to her spirit fading away permanently. But she knew this had to happen, her one last gift to her beloved Firestar.

Cloudtail
Cloudtail, a long-furred snowy white tom with round blue eyes, is a ThunderClan warrior first introduced as a kit, Cloudkit, in Fire and Ice. He is the son of Princess, Firestar's kittypet sister, and Oliver and thus is Firestar's nephew. He has four littermates, Zack, Taylor, Nami, and Livy. Upon learning that her kits are to be given away by her Twoleg owners, Princess gives her eldest kit to Firestar, because she wanted him to be a hero, like Firestar is. Initially, Cloudkit is rejected by many members of ThunderClan, including Bluestar herself, because of the Clan's reluctance to admit yet another kittypet into its ranks.

Cloudtail grew up as a disrespectful, annoying, loud-mouthed apprentice who often refuses to listen to his mentor, Firestar. He is quite slow to understand the warrior code and often takes selfish actions that benefit himself and not the Clan. His loyalty to the Clan is finally established when, after sneaking off to solicit food from Twolegs, he is captured and taken to a suburb on the other side of WindClan territory near Barley's farm. Firestar and Sandstorm rescue him with Ravenpaw's help. Upon his return to ThunderClan, he is pelted with questions and he refers to his time with the Twolegs as 'capture' and greatly exaggerates his tale. This event serves to firmly cement Cloudtail's place in the Clan, and he behaves in a much more mature manner towards his Clan thereafter.

Despite becoming a loyal warrior, Cloudtail has retained much of his attitude and is one of the most aggressive cats in the Clan; he is known for his sharp tongue and is often one of the first cats to jump at the prospect of a fight. Cloudtail did not believe in StarClan in the first series, making him one of two Clan cats in the series to do so (the other being Mothwing, the RiverClan medicine cat). He does show a significantly softer side when dealing with his mate, Brightheart, however. Cloudtail is primarily responsible for training Brightheart to be able to fight effectively despite her injuries. His personality taken aside, Cloudtail is friendly to most cats (provided they are not from another Clan). He is one of the best climbers and has the best tracking ability in the Clan.[11]

Cloudtail has two daughters, and two sons. He first has one daughter with Brightheart, Whitewing. Later in The Last Hope, he and Brightheart have another daughter, Amberkit, and two sons, Dewkit and Snowkit (Now Ambermoon, Dewnose, and Snowbush). He is grandfather to Lilyheart and Snowbush's kits, Honeypaw, Leafpaw, and Larkpaw. Being Firestar's nephew, he also shares kinship with all of Firestar's direct line, including Leafpool, Squirrelflight, and Jayfeather, Hollyleaf, and Lionblaze. During the second half of The New Prophecy series, he shows interest in Daisy, a horseplace cat. He is unaware of the fact that Daisy is in love with him, but once he realizes that he is hurting his mate Brightheart, he resolves to stay with Brightheart, and rekindles his relationship with her.[13] Cloudtail has mentored Cinderheart, Rainwhisker, and Toadstep as well as temporarily training Flamepaw of ShadowClan when Tawnypelt and her kits briefly left ShadowClan for ThunderClan in Long Shadows. He's grandfather to Dovewing and Ivypool.

Brightheart
Brightheart, a white she-cat with ginger patches along her back, a ginger tail, one missing eye and a disfigured ear, is a ThunderClan warrior introduced in Forest of Secrets. Brightpaw, along with her fellow apprentices Cloudpaw, Thornpaw, and Swiftpaw, remained apprentices for an unusually long period of time due to Bluestar's following Tigerclaw's betrayal.[12] Brightpaw develops a strong friendship with Cloudpaw and is the first apprentice to congratulate him after his promotion to warrior status, while the other apprentices are jealous and angry that they were not promoted as well. In A Dangerous Path, Brightpaw joins an unauthorized expedition led by Swiftpaw into the lair of a dog pack in an attempt to prove themselves worthy of becoming warriors. However, the mission is a failure: Swiftpaw is killed, and Brightpaw is seriously injured by the dog pack. Half of Brightheart's face is disfigured due to her injuries, including a missing eye and a scarred ear leading Bluestar to give her the warrior name Lostface. Firestar later changes this to Brightheart when he becomes leader.

Though initially discouraged by her injuries, Brightheart is soon able to develop, with the help of Cloudtail, a system of fighting that makes use of her one-sided vision, making her as effective at fighting as any other warrior.[9] She recoils from the sight of her own face and sometimes flinches when other cats are frightened by her scarred face. However, Brightheart is warm and kind-hearted to many warriors in the Clan. She adopts the duties of an unofficial medicine cat during the latter half of The New Prophecy series, becoming an object of Leafpool's jealousy, but quickly returns to being a warrior after Leafpool becomes ThunderClan's main medicine cat. In Twilight, Brightheart holds a grudge for Daisy, who often flirts and spends time with her mate, Cloudtail.[18] However, after Leafpool points out to Cloudtail that he is hurting Brightheart, Daisy tells Brightheart that Cloudtail loves Brightheart.

Brightheart was mentored by Whitestorm, who also mentored her cousin Sandstorm, and had since taken Sandstorm's grandson Jayfeather as an apprentice, although this was only temporary due to Jayfeather later taking the role of medicine cat. She appears to have been hurt by this, likely due to her being desperate to prove to herself and the Clan that she can still function as well as a normal warrior. Despite Jaypaw's prickly attitude towards her during his apprenticeship, he is able to sense her feelings and is sympathetically warmer towards her upon becoming a medicine cat.[19] Her mother is Frostfur, which makes her the sibling of Thornclaw, Cinderpelt, and Brackenfur. She and her mate, Cloudtail, currently have two daughters and two sons. Whitewing is their oldest daughter, born much earlier than her siblings. Later, Brightheart and Cloudtail have another daughter, Amberkit, and two sons, Snowkit and Dewkit, during the course of The Last Hope. She is also aunt to Poppyfrost, Honeyfern, Cinderheart, and Molepaw (Brackenfur's kits) grandaunt to Cherrykit and Molekit (Poppyfrost's kits), and grandmother to Dovewing, Ivypool (Whitewing's kits), Leafpaw, Larkpaw, and Honeypaw (Snowbush and Lilyheart's kits).

Brackenfur
Brackenfur, a muscular golden brown tabby tom, is a ThunderClan warrior first introduced in Fire and Ice as an apprentice, Brackenpaw. He is the son of Frostfur and the littermate of Cinderpelt, Brightheart, and Thornclaw, and he trained as an apprentice under Firestar and Graystripe.[8] Firestar, he was Fireheart then, often took over his training when Graystripe left the camp to meet with Silverstream even though meeting with cats outside one's own Clan is against the warrior code, upon becoming a warrior in Forest of Secrets.[12] He is considered by Firestar to become ThunderClan's deputy in Sunset, but is not chosen after Leafpool receives a sign from StarClan that she interprets as an indication to select Brambleclaw instead.[13]

In the New Prophecy series, Brackenfur takes Sorreltail as a mate, and has six kits with her: Molepaw (who dies of disease between The New Prophecy and Power of Three series),[19] Poppyfrost, Honeyfern, Cinderheart (later revealed to be the reincarnation of Cinderpelt, his sister), as well as Lilykit and Seedkit, who are born in the Omen of the Stars series.[20] He is grandfather to Cherrypaw and Molepaw (Poppyfrost's kits). Brackenfur has mentored Tawnypelt (before she left ThunderClan to go to ShadowClan), Whitewing, and Hollyleaf. He also trained Tigerpaw of ShadowClan for a while when Tawnypelt and her kits left ShadowClan for ThunderClan in Long Shadows.[21]

Ravenpaw
Ravenpaw, a sleek, almost all black (except for the tip of his tail and a little dash on his chest, which is white) tom with green eyes, is a current loner, first introduced as a ThunderClan apprentice in Into the Wild. After Firepaw is accepted into the forest, he trains along with Graypaw and Firepaw and the three become good friends. Ravenpaw is nervous and shy around his Clanmates, mostly due to the fact that his mentor, Tigerclaw, treats him harshly and often belittles him in front of the other warriors. Part of this is because Ravenpaw saw Tigerclaw murder Redtail, the ThunderClan deputy. Eventually Tigerclaw decides that Ravenpaw's storytelling abilities are too dangerous, and plots to kill him to keep his secret safe. Firepaw discovers this, and along with Graypaw, shows Ravenpaw across the WindClan border to shelter in Barley's barn, while telling the rest of the Clan that he is dead.[1]

Firepaw takes Ravenpaw to the barn, and he seems to enjoy his life with Barley. He loses his old nervousness and becomes much more confident and outgoing, while retaining a loyal debt of gratitude towards his former Clanmates. His situation is present throughout the series: while some outsiders such as kittypets appear to have been born to live in a Clan, there are also Clan-born cats whose destinies lie elsewhere. Ravenpaw returns at various times throughout the series to lend assistance or shelter to cats traveling across his territory, most notably helping to feed and shelter all of the forest Clans during the beginning of their relocation in Dawn.[22] Ravenpaw also assists Firestar and Greystripe in retrieving Graystripe's kits from RiverClan during Tigerstar's cruel leadership of the Clan in The Darkest Hour. He then returns to the Clan along with Barley to fight alongside ThunderClan and WindClan in the battle with BloodClan.[10] While sheltering the forest cats in Dawn, Firestar asks Ravenpaw to rejoin ThunderClan and travel with them to the lake. Ravenpaw says no, stating that he is happier being a loner than he ever would be in a Clan.[22] His parents were Robinwing and Fuzzypelt, making him brother to Frostfur, Brindleface, and Dustpelt, uncle to Brackenfur, Brightheart, Cinderpelt and Thornclaw (Frostfur's kits), Sandstorm, Ashfur and Ferncloud (Brindleface's kits), Spiderleg, Shrewpaw, Birchfall, Hollykit, Larchkit, Icecloud and Foxleap (Dustpelt's kits), great-uncle to Squirrelflight and Leafpool (Sandstorm's daughters), Spiderleg, Shrewpaw, Birchfall, Hollykit, Larchkit, Icecloud and Foxleap (Ferncloud's kits), Whitewing, Dewnose, Snowbush, and Ambermoon (Brightheart's kits), Honeyfern, Poppyfrost, Cinderheart and Molepaw (Brackenfur's kits), Rosepetal and Toadstep (Spiderleg's kits), and Dovewing and Ivypool (Birchfall's daughters).

Ravenpaw currently has a manga series about him and his encounter with some old BloodClan cats.[23]

In the Ultimate Guide Ravenpaw is one of the members of Starclan to give Bramblestar his nine lives.

Dustpelt
Dustpelt, a dark brown tabby tom with amber eyes, is a ThunderClan warrior introduced in Into the Wild as an apprentice. He had recently been made an apprentice, Dustpaw, when Firepaw initially joined the Clan. He was mentored by Redtail, and then by Darkstripe following Redtail's death. He was one of the cats that disliked Firepaw, like Sandpaw; however, this becomes less important as the story goes on.[1] He becomes a warrior, Dustpelt, in Fire and Ice.[8] Originally an ally and strong supporter of Tigerclaw, Dustpelt was horrified to discover that Tigerclaw murdered his mentor, Redtail, and rejected him in front of the Clan when Tigerclaw was exiled.[12]

Though usually depicted as a grudging ally of Firestar throughout all three series, Dustpelt's loyalty to his Clan (and its "kittypet" leader) is of importance to him and he is a valued warrior as a result. Dustpelt is a skilled fighter, and is present in most attack parties. He is also a warm and dedicated father, having experienced the deaths of three of his kits, and makes sure to maintain a strong presence in both his kits' lives and that of his mate, Ferncloud.

Dustpelt's kits, both living and dead, include Hollykit, Larchkit, Shrewpaw, Foxleap, Icecloud, Birchfall, and Spiderleg, of which one, Birchfall, is still alive. His grandchildren, Toadstep and Rosepetal, are the kits of Spiderleg and his mate Daisy, and Dovewing and Ivypool who are the kits of Birchfall and Whitewing. Throughout the course of the series Dustpelt has mentored Ashfur, Squirrelflight, and Hazeltail, as well as briefly mentoring Sorreltail for a time.

Darkstripe
Darkstripe, a sleek black and grey tabby tom, is an antagonist and a warrior in ThunderClan during most of the original series. He is a rude, nasty, and unpleasant individual who maintains a highly negative opinion of Firestar throughout the series. He is the closest friend and biggest supporter of Tigerstar, and as such is fiercely loyal to Tigerstar's ambitions despite their implications. Darkstripe routinely voices his negative opinions at Clan meetings, refusing to trust Firestar due to his kittypet origins and openly mocking any cat who thinks otherwise.

When Tigerclaw is exiled from ThunderClan in Forest of Secrets, Darkstripe voices his disappointment that Tigerstar did not include him in his plan to kill Bluestar (he did not appear to have a problem with Tigerstar's plan itself, but rather that he was not allowed to be a part of it).[12] Darkstripe's lonely path of a devoted follower continues to reduce his popularity in the Clan, and in A Dangerous Path he begins secretly plotting with Tigerstar across the border in order to bring the dogs upon the camp and save only Tigerstar's children, Bramblekit and Tawnykit, from the ensuing chaos, but not Tigerstar's mate, Goldenflower.[9] After this fails, he attempts to murder his half-sister, Sorrelkit (later Sorreltail), with deathberries when she discovers his meetings with Blackfoot, Tigerstar's deputy, and he is exiled from the Clan. Darkstripe immediately runs to Tigerstar's side and kills one of Bluestar's children, Stonefur, but when Tigerstar is killed by Scourge, Darkstripe is left completely alone. His resulting madness culminates in the battle with BloodClan during The Darkest Hour; he forsakes all loyalty to his Clan and tries to murder Firestar in "revenge" for Tigerstar's death. He is stopped and killed by his half-brother, Graystripe during the battle.[10]

Darkstripe has mentored Longtail, Dustpelt, and Ferncloud, although his mentorship of Ferncloud was revoked when he was exiled from the Clan. He was mentored by Tigerclaw. His mother was Willowpelt and his father was Tawnyspots, and it can be implied from his personality that hardly any cat liked him very much. He is shown during the prologue of Sunset to be walking the Dark Forest/Place of No Stars like Tigerstar, Brokentail, and eventually Hawkfrost, and all of the other Clan cats that are considered traitors and evil.[13]

In Code of the Clans, he is hunting with Longtail. When Longtail catches a plump squirrel, Darkstripe encourages them to eat it since prey is scarce. After eating it and returning to camp with a smaller catch, Poppydawn, who needs food, dies of a case of greencough. While Longtail feels guilty, Darkstripe does not care.

Longtail
Longtail, a pale yellow tabby tom with black stripes and a very long tail, is a recurring ThunderClan warrior introduced in Into the Wild. He is the first to challenge Firestar due to his kittypet origins, and fights him when he first arrives in the Clan. This results in Firestar's collar being ripped off, which is then taken as a sign that he will be accepted into the Clan. Longtail's ear is torn, resulting in a scar. Longtail maintains a grudge against Firestar for much of the series, not only because an apprentice defeated him and gave him his scar, but also because he, Longtail, was a strong supporter of Tigerclaw, Firestar's chief rival.[1]

Longtail's attitude slowly matures over the course of the series, and he develops an eventual respect for Firestar as a result of his repeatedly demonstrated courage, something Longtail lacks. He revokes his allegiance with Tigerclaw after the latter is exiled for treason, and sets himself toward becoming a respected warrior within the Clan. His loyalty is further proven when he volunteers to be bait for Tigerstar's vicious dog pack. While he still resents Firestar to some degree, he realizes his Clan's safety is far more important and warns him of his cousin Tigerstar's dark schemes from across the border as well as his cousin Darkstripe's misplaced loyalty during Rising Storm and A Dangerous Path.[9][14] Longtail eventually fights alongside Firestar against BloodClan during the events of The Darkest Hour, having finally found his true place within the Clan as well as Firestar's respect.[10]

Almost ironically, Longtail is blinded shortly thereafter by a rabbit's claws in Firestar's Quest.[11] He remains in the Clan as an elder throughout The New Prophecy and Power of Three series, despite being only slightly older than Firestar. He was mentored by Darkstripe and he has mentored Swiftpaw, his niece Ferncloud and his cousin Sootfur (before he was blinded). He also taught his great-great-nephew Jayfeather how to utilize his other senses without sight.[19] He was killed by a falling tree in Fading Echoes while trying to retrieve a piece of fresh-kill for Mousefur.[24] Longtail was the oldest tom and second oldest cat in ThunderClan. His parents were Patchpelt and Robinwing. Longtail is also half-brother to Greystripe.

In Code of the Clans, he is hunting with Darkstripe. When he catches a plump squirrel, Darkstripe encourages them to eat it since prey is scarce. After eating it and returning to camp, Poppydawn, who needs food, dies of a case of greencough. Longtail feels guilty, while Darkstripe does not.

Mousefur
Mousefur, a small dusky brown she-cat, is a ThunderClan warrior introduced in Into the Wild.[1] She is a respected warrior in the Clan and is known for having a fierce personality, similar to Cloudtail and Speckletail. Mousefur was one of the cats who volunteered to be bait for the dog pack.[9] Mousefur is usually friendly to Firestar, but has been known to change her attitude towards him depending on the situation. Mousefur is often among any group of cats voicing a counter-opinion to a major decision, forcing the Clan to look at an issue from an opposite perspective. Despite her many arguments and aggressive pride, however, she usually ends up agreeing with the correct choice in a given situation.

Mousefur's age causes her to join the elders in Starlight in The New Prophecy series, where she currently remains.[3] Since then she has fallen ill a number of times, more recently catching greencough and causing Jaypaw to experience his first medical epidemic as a medicine cat in The Sight.[19] Mousefur and Longtail have become unlikely friends due to their sharing of the elders' den, and often playfully bicker back and forth similar to Yellowfang and Cinderpelt. Although, due to her stubbornness (or thoughtfulness) she sometimes refuses to take herbs or prey, insisting the younger cats need it more. She even volunteers to help take care of the sick cats in Long Shadows as she thinks that being an elder, her life is less valuable than the younger cats. She asked Brambleclaw this even though Firestar had already turned down her request, only to be turned down by Brambleclaw as well.[25] Mousefur was killed in The Last Hope by a Dark Forest warrior.

Mousefur has been a mentor to Thornclaw and Spiderleg. Mousefur's parents are Halftail and One-eye, and her brother is Runningwind.

Thornclaw
Thornclaw, a golden brown tabby tom, first appears in Forest of Secrets as a young ThunderClan apprentice, Thornpaw.[12] He is an apprentice for a large part of the original series, along with Brightpaw, Cloudpaw and Swiftpaw, mainly due to Bluestar's descent into paranoia during the last half of the original series and her refusing to trust any of her warriors. When she died, the newly appointed Firestar conducted his first naming ceremony on Thornclaw, finally making the young tom into a warrior.[10]

Thornclaw's personality begins to show during The New Prophecy and Power of Three, where he is shown to be a warrior very similar to Brackenfur in manner and attitude. He is an excellent fighter and is often chosen to assist in battle parties and long-range patrols. Thornclaw, like Brackenfur, becomes slightly worried about the increasing numbers of non-Clan cats present in ThunderClan during the Power of Three series, as well as at Firestar for being too accepting of them. This is primarily due to increasing hostility from the other three Clans, who begin to make claims that ThunderClan is becoming diluted and weak. Despite these feelings, Thornclaw is always portrayed as a kind, caring, and patient cat and has never been shown to be disloyal. When Hollyleaf returns in The Forgotten Warrior he is among the cats who distrust her.

Thornclaw's mother is Frostfur and his father is Lionheart. His siblings are Brightheart, Brackenfur and Cinderpelt. As a result, Thornclaw is uncle to both Brightheart's and Brackenfur's kits, including Whitewing, Cinderheart, Honeyfern, Poppyfrost, Lilyheart, Seedpaw, Cherrypaw and Molepaw, and great uncle to Dovewing and Ivypool (Whitewing's kits) and Cherrykit and Molekit (Poppyfrost's kits). He was mentored by Mousefur and has mentored Sootfur, Shrewpaw, Poppyfrost and Briarlight. Thornclaw's also nephew to Brindleface (Frostfur's sister), grandson to Robinwing and Fuzzypelt (Frostfur's parents), cousin to Sandstorm, Ashfur and Ferncloud (Brindleface's kits), second cousin to Spiderleg, Shrewpaw, Birchfall, Hollykit, Larchkit, Foxleap and Icecloud (Ferncloud's kits) and third cousin to Toadstep and Rosepetal (Spiderleg's kits) and Dovewing and Ivypool.

Whitestorm
Whitestorm, a large white tom with yellow eyes, was a senior ThunderClan warrior in the original series. He was one of the few cats who always treated Firestar with kindness when he is first brought into ThunderClan, and often gave him advice when he sensed that he was troubled.[1] Whitestorm was a gallant fighter, but was always more reserved rather than bloodthirsty and carries a thoughtful demeanor.

Though he was one of the most experienced senior warriors in the Clan, Whitestorm does not harbor any ambition toward becoming Clan leader and as such offers his wisdom to younger cats entirely out of good will. He assisted Firestar with the burdens of being Clan deputy during Bluestar's depression, and takes over for him occasionally when Firestar's duties call him elsewhere. Being Bluestar's nephew, as her sister Snowfur was his mother, Whitestorm was one of the warriors who were closest to her, and often stayed by her side in order to comfort her and maintain her sanity when she succumbed into paranoia through the later books. Eventually Firestar appointed Whitestorm as his deputy in appreciation for all his advice, a promotion he was unexpectedly pleased about (a trait that Firestar admires, given the ambitions of previous cats he had encountered). Whitestorm was killed by Bone during the battle with BloodClan in The Darkest Hour, his last wish being that Firestar appoint Graystripe as his new deputy, which is granted.[10]

Whitestorm's mate was Willowpelt. With Willowpelt he fathered Sorreltail, Sootfur and Rainwhisker. As such he was the grandfather of Sorreltail's kits, Cinderheart, Molekit, Honeyfern, Poppyfrost, Seedpaw,and Lilyheart. And is the great-grandfather of Molepaw and Cherrypaw (Poppyfrost's kits). Snowfur's parents were Stormtail and Moonflower making them his other set of grandparents. His aunts were Bluestar (Snowfur's sister), Sweetpaw and Rosetail, because their brother, Thistleclaw, was his father, making Poppydawn and Windflight, their parents, his paternal grandparents.[4] He was mentored by Patchpelt, and later mentored Patchpelt's niece, Sandstorm, and later, Sandstorm's cousin Brightheart. He is great-nephew to Pinestar (Poppydawn's brother), and great-great-grandson to Sweetbriar (Pinestar's mother).

Yellowfang
Yellowfang, a dark grey she-cat with bright orange eyes and a flat, broad face with two scars on her muzzle. She is ThunderClan's medicine cat for much of the duration of the original series. She was originally the medicine cat of ShadowClan, and formed a forbidden relationship with ShadowClan's leader, Raggedstar (as medicine cats are not supposed to have mates), which resulted in her giving birth to three kits. Two of these kits died, and the third, Brokentail, lived and eventually forced his way into becoming ShadowClan's leader by killing his father, Raggedstar. Yellowfang believed that the consequences of her actions weren't that her other two kits died, but that Brokenstar survived to take over ShadowClan. Yellowfang was exiled from the camp when Brokenstar, who had never known who his true mother was, blamed her for the death of two kits he had forced into training too early. Yellowfang was found by Firepaw, who took her back to camp as a prisoner. After Spottedleaf's death, Yellowfang succeeded her as ThunderClan's new medicine cat. Later Yellowfang feeds deathberries to Brokenstar, after his capture by ThunderClan, killing him.[1]

Yellowfang displays a rough and irritable personality to most cats who encounter her, especially Cinderpelt and Fireheart. She speaks the blunt truth rather often, refusing to soften her words, as she feels this would dilute the truth of the matter. Yellowfang has a close friendship with Firepaw beyond their initial meeting, during which the two attack each other. She is struck by Firepaw's potential and acts as a surrogate mother to him throughout his training. When Cinderpelt is injured and her chances of becoming a warrior forfeited, Yellowfang trains her as a medicine cat.[8] Her personality clashes with that of Cinderpelt's, and the two often bicker playfully back and forth; Yellowfang greatly respects Cinderpelt as a result due to her courage to fire her words right back at her.

Yellowfang dies from smoke inhalation in the great fire that destroys much of ThunderClan's camp during the events of Rising Storm. Her last words are to Fireheart, telling him that he was the son she always wished she had.[14] Yellowfang mentored Runningnose as a medicine cat in ShadowClan, who retained a great deal of respect for her despite her exile. She then mentored Cinderpelt in ThunderClan. Yellowfang's mentor is Sagewhisker.

In the Power of Three series, Yellowfang is one of the first StarClan cats to realize Jaypaw's ability to transcend dreams. She attempts to stop him from abusing his power, but Jaypaw stubbornly refuses. She also argues with Bluestar and other members of StarClan regarding the prophecy concerning Jaypaw and his siblings, saying that the cats of StarClan are intentionally deceiving the three for an as yet undisclosed reason, however most likely referring to the fact that Leafpool is their mother. She also gave the crow's feather to Jayfeather in Sunrise to figure out who his father was.[26] She appears in "The Forgotten Warrior" to tell Jayfeather that Cinderheart needs to know who she really is.

In The Last Hope, Yellowfang kills the spirit of Brokenstar, causing him to fade away forever.

The New Prophecy Series
The New Prophecy series covers events in the story from Midnight to Sunset. Many characters here were first mentioned in the original series, but had minor or insignificant roles. In addition, as with the original series, most characters listed here play minor or significant roles in the following series, Power of Three, as well. The series circles around Tigerstar's and Firestar's children as the Clans have to find a new home, thanks to the twolegs who are destroying it.

Ashfur
Ashfur, a muscular pale gray tom with darker flecks and dark blue eyes, was a ThunderClan warrior who was introduced in the original series unnamed but was later named Ashpaw. During the original series, he and Fernpaw willingly served as bait for the pack of dogs threatening ThunderClan's camp and ran ahead of them in order to lead them off course, because they lost their mother, Brindleface, to Tigerstar.[9] In Into the Wild, there is a ShadowClan elder named Ashfur.[1] He died in Rising Storm, but since ThunderClan's Ashfur was still Ashpaw at the time, there was no colliding of names.[14] Ashfur is shown to be deeply committed to the warrior code, and, like other warriors such as his brother-in-law Dustpelt and his cousin Thornclaw, has concerns about the increasing amount of half-Clan and rogue cats that have been allowed to join ThunderClan.

During the events of The New Prophecy, he falls in love with Squirrelflight, and attempts to get closer to her while she struggles with Brambleclaw. He is dismayed when Squirrelflight eventually tells him she was in love with Brambleclaw instead of him.[13] Ashfur's resentment of Brambleclaw is also subconsciously motivated; he has never been able to forgive Brambleclaw for his father Tigerstar's actions, mainly his killing of his mother, Brindleface.

In the Power of Three series, Ashfur starts showing his resentment towards Squirrelflight's decision to raise a family with Brambleclaw. For example, during a sparring match between him and his apprentice, Lionpaw, Brambleclaw's son, he turns ferociously hostile. However, it is revealed in Long Shadows that he has never been angry with Brambleclaw, just Squirrelflight. It was he who helped Hawkfrost try to kill Firestar in Sunset since he wanted Squirrelflight to suffer the pain of losing her father in retaliation for her choosing Brambleclaw over him. He tries to do this again by attempting to kill Lionblaze, Jayfeather, and Hollyleaf in the forest fire in Long Shadows, but he releases them when Squirrelflight reveals they aren't her kits. He vows to tell all of the cats at the upcoming Gathering, which he claims will destroy Squirrelflight, in that she will lose Lionblaze, Jayfeather and Hollyleaf, Brambleclaw will want nothing to do with her, and no cat in any Clan would respect her. At the end of Long Shadows, before he gets the chance, he is mysteriously killed and his body was found floating in the stream of WindClan territory. Most of the cats of ThunderClan suspect it was a WindClan patrol, but it seemed to be implied that Squirrelflight killed him.[25] The fact that Firestar did not mention the death of Ashfur at the Gathering might have been significant. Many people felt that Squirrelflight did not kill Ashfur, and the authors were instead trying to surprise the readers. Another suspected killer among fans was Sol (though he seemed not to have a motive). In Sunrise, his killer was revealed to be Hollyleaf, rather than Squirrelflight.[26]

Ashfur's mentor was Dustpelt. He has mentored Lionblaze as well as his nephew Birchfall. His mother is Brindleface. Brindleface was killed by Tigerstar in A Dangerous Path.[9] He had a sister, Ferncloud, and as such is the uncle of Ferncloud's kits including Larchkit, Hollykit, Icecloud, Foxleap, Shrewpaw, Spiderleg, and Birchfall. He is also the foster brother of Cloudtail, due to his mother Brindleface's serving as Cloudtail's surrogate mother in the Clan. His aunt was Frostfur, making him cousin to Brackenfur, Brightheart, Cinderpelt and Thornclaw. In Omen of the Stars, it is revealed that he was allowed to join StarClan instead of being sent to the Dark Forest because his only fault was loving Squirrelflight too much. He is believed to have forgiven Hollyleaf for killing him when she enters the ranks of StarClan. Ashfur presumably fought in the battle against the Dark Forest, although this has not been confirmed.

Things Ashfur has killed: Bone Firestar His chances with Squirrelflight

Bramblestar
Bramblestar, first introduced as Bramblekit in Forest of Secrets, and later known as Brambleclaw, is a huge, muscular dark brown tabby tom with amber eyes. In A Dangerous Path, he becomes Firestar's apprentice and is known as Bramblepaw for the remainder of the original series.[9] He receives his warrior name, Brambleclaw, in the beginning of Firestar's Quest.[11]

Bramblestar is the current ThunderClan leader, but he is often questioned about his loyalties because of his murderous dead father, Tigerstar. He receives a message from the dead Bluestar, where she tells him that he must travel with cats from each Clan to go to the sun-drown place. That leads him to be traveling with his sister Tawnypelt, Crowfeather, Feathertail, and her brother Stormfur, and Firestar's daughter Squirrelflight. The cats journey to the sun-drown-place to find the badger, Midnight, who tells them that the Clans must find a new home. Brambleclaw seems to take a leadership role on their journey.[27]

Brambleclaw and the others help to find the Clans a new home around the lake. Once the four Clans had settled in their new homes, Tigerstar began to walk in the dreams of Brambleclaw and Brambleclaw's half-brother, Hawkfrost, both Tigerstar's kin. Tigerstar's goal was to make his two sons ambitious for power, like he was when he was alive. However, he believes that Brambleclaw is too weak to take power by himself, so he plots with his evil son, Hawkfrost, to create a trap for Firestar. Hawkfrost shares his plot with Ashfur, who agrees to help, wanting to cause terrible pain for Squirrelflight because she chose Brambleclaw instead of him. Under the false assumption that Blackstar was waiting at the border, Firestar falls victim to a fox trap. Hawkfrost reveals that he was the one who led Firestar there, hoping Bramblestar would kill Firestar, and planning to kill Brambleclaw if he refused. However, Brambleclaw kills Hawkfrost and frees Firestar. Brambleclaw is later named deputy of ThunderClan after Leafpool has a vision of thorn-sharp brambles encircling the camp.

In Sunset, Brambleclaw and Squirrelflight, who had been quarreling before, realize how important they truly are to each other and become mates, angering Ashfur.[13] They apparently have three kits, Jayfeather, Hollyleaf, and Lionblaze – however, in Long Shadows, Squirrelflight admits that Brambleclaw is not the father of her kits, and she never even had kits in the first place.[25] Brambleclaw himself is unaware of this, according to Squirrelflight, until the end of Sunrise. He becomes furious at Squirrelflight for lying to him.[26] In The Fourth Apprentice, it's revealed that they are not mates anymore due to this.[28]

In The Last Hope, Brambleclaw succeeds Firestar as leader of ThunderClan, and appoints Squirrelflight his deputy, having finally forgiven her for her deception.[16]

Brambleclaw has mentored Berrynose. Brambleclaw's siblings include Tawnypelt and four half siblings: Hawkfrost, Mothwing, Tadpole and Swiftpaw. He is uncle to Tawnypelt's kits, including Tigerheart, Dawnpelt, and Flametail.

Brambleclaw's parents are Goldenflower and Tigerstar, and it is revealed in Code of the Clans that Brambleclaw's grandparents are Pinestar and Leopardfoot.[29] He is great-grandson to Sweetbriar (Pinestar's mother), Adderfang and Swiftbreeze (Leopardfoot's parents); his both great-grandmothers being SkyClan's direct descendants (Cloudstar, Birdflight, Gorseclaw and Spottedpelt), Brambleclaw is himself part-SkyClan. He is also nephew to Mistkit and Nightkit (Tigerstar's sisters), Lionheart and Snowkit (Goldenflower's brothers), and great-nephew to Patchpelt, Willowpelt, Redtail and Spottedleaf (Leopardfoot's siblings).

Squirrelflight
Squirrelflight, a dark ginger she-cat with green eyes, one white forepaw and a long, bushy, squirrel-like tail, is the daughter of Firestar and Sandstorm, as well as the littermate of Leafpool. She and Leafpool share a special telepathic connection, in which one can always know what the other is thinking or feeling.[27] She and Leafpool are first introduced as kits, Squirrelkit and Leafkit, in the epilogue of Firestar's Quest.[11] In The New Prophecy, Squirrelflight joins the prophesied cats to find Midnight at the sun-drown place, the prophesied cats being Crowpaw, Feathertail, Brambleclaw and his sister Tawnypelt. Stormfur tags along as well so he can be with Feathertail, his sister.[27] Squirrelflight is shown to be arrogant with a temper as an apprentice, but gradually matures during The New Prophecy series.

At first, she taunted and resented Brambleclaw, but later fell in love with him during their journey, similar to what happened with her parents, Firestar and Sandstorm. However, when Brambleclaw warms up to his half-brother and RiverClan warrior, Hawkfrost, Squirrelflight begins to lose her trust in him, believing that Hawkfrost is as murderously ambitious as his father, Tigerstar, and that Brambleclaw will follow in his footsteps. During this time, Squirrelflight began to get closer to Ashfur.[18] During the badger attack in ThunderClan camp that kills Cinderpelt, Squirrelflight and Brambleclaw realize how much they really mean to each other, and Squirrelflight leaves Ashfur to be with Brambleclaw. She tries to remain friends with Ashfur, but he rejects her friendship, feeling betrayed.[13]

At the end of The New Prophecy series, Squirrelflight and Brambleclaw apparently have three kits; Jayfeather, Hollyleaf, and Lionblaze. Ashfur seems to have gotten over Squirrelflight, however he behaves rather strangely. In Long Shadows, Ashfur admits that he was the one who helped Hawkfrost try to kill Firestar in Sunset, in an attempt to hurt Squirrelflight emotionally. He then tries to kill her three kits in a forest fire, but Squirrelflight reveals that they aren't hers, so it would not hurt her that way. At the end of Long Shadows, Ashfur is found mysteriously murdered by WindClan territory, Squirrelflight being a major suspect, but it is revealed in Sunrise that actually Hollyleaf killed Ashfur, trying to keep him quiet, as he was planning to tell the secret that Squirrelflight and Brambleclaw weren't her parents at a Gathering.[26][25] Brambleclaw is furious that Squirrelflight lied to him about Lionblaze, Hollyleaf, and Jayfeather, and in Omen of the Stars, they are not mates anymore. At the end of The Last Hope, he finally forgives her.

When her father dies and Brambleclaw becomes leader, she becomes his deputy. In the manga at the end of Bramblestar's Storm, it is revealed that she is not barren, as indicated earlier by Yellowfang, as she is expecting Bramblestar's kits. In The Apprentice's Quest, she has kits Alderpaw and Sparkpaw. Alderpaw looks like his father Bramblestar and Sparkpaw looks like her grandfather Firestar.

Squirrelflight was mentored by Dustpelt and has mentored Foxleap and Rosepetal.

Leafpool
Leafpool, a slender light brown tabby she-cat with white paws and amber eyes, is the medicine cat of ThunderClan. She is the daughter of Firestar and Sandstorm, and the sister of Squirrelflight, with whom she shares a unique telepathic connection, in which each can always know what the other is feeling.[27] She is mentioned as a kit, Leafkit, named for Leafstar and Spottedleaf, in the epilogue of Firestar's Quest,[11] and later as a medicine cat apprentice, Leafpaw, in Midnight, mentored by her mother's cousin Cinderpelt.[27] She makes the Great Journey along with the four Clans in Dawn[22] and discovers the Moonpool in Starlight, the Moonstone equivalent in their new territory. Because of this, Cinderpelt gives Leafpaw her full medicine cat name, Leafpool. Leafpool also receives a frightening prophecy from StarClan: Before there is peace, blood will spill blood, and the lake will run red.[3]

This prophecy meant Brambleclaw killing Hawkfrost to save Firestar, Leafpool's father. When Leafpool arrives a little after Hawkfrost dies, not going to StarClan but to the Dark Forest seeing that he is just as evil as Tigerstar, she believes that Brambleclaw is a traitor, but when she sees that the blood on his pads weren't her father's but Hawkfrost's, she understood the prophecy at last. Brambleclaw and Hawkfrost were kin; Blood had indeed spilled blood. Brambleclaw had killed his half brother to save Firestar. She had been right about Hawkfrost – he was too ambitious, too much like his father, Tigerstar - but she has never imagined that Brambleclaw would be the cat to stop him.[13]

Leafpool starts to develop feelings for Crowfeather, though they are from different Clans and Leafpool is not allowed to take a mate, being a medicine cat. After Cinderpelt finds out that she has been meeting Crowfeather, they attempt to run away to be able to be together in Twilight. However, when Midnight the badger arrives to warn the Clans of a badger attack, Crowfeather and Leafpool realize how much their Clans mean to them, and they decide to return. Unfortunately, Leafpool arrives too late to save Cinderpelt when the horde of badgers attack the ThunderClan camp, and continually expresses guilt because of her mentor's death throughout the rest of the series.[18] She and Crowfeather agree never to see each other again, though for the rest of the books they are both oddly tense whenever they meet on occasion. Leafpool becomes the new ThunderClan medicine cat in Sunset, and discovers that Brambleclaw is to be the new deputy in Greystripe's absence and that he and Squirrelflight are destined to be mates, as well as the fact that her mentor, Cinderpelt, has been reincarnated as one of Sorreltail's kits, Cinderheart.[13] Spottedleaf also reveals to her that Mothwing, the RiverClan medicine cat and Leafpool's friend, does not believe in StarClan, a result of Hawkfrost, her brother, tricking Mudfur into taking her as his apprentice and then openly sharing with her what truly happened. Leafpool is also featured in a play written by Victoria Holmes, titled After Sunset: We Need to Talk, in which she appears to have something to tell Crowfeather, but then denies it after Crowfeather confesses that he has taken a new mate, Nightcloud, in WindClan.[30]

Later, in The Sight, she takes Hollypaw as her apprentice, who later decides to quit and become a warrior instead, confessing that she only wanted to be a medicine cat because of the position it would give her. Then, Jaypaw, Hollypaw's brother, receives a message from StarClan telling him that he must become a medicine cat, and becomes Leafpool's new apprentice.[19] Leafpool gives him his full medicine cat name Jayfeather, in Long Shadows.[25]

In "Sunrise" it is revealed that Leafpool is Jayfeather, Hollyleaf and Lionblaze's mother, and Crowfeather is their father. Hollyleaf tells the truth at the Gathering and Crowfeather says that Leafpool, Jayfeather, Lionblaze and Hollyleaf mean nothing to him. Leafpool apologizes to the Clan for her deception and wilingly steps down as a medicine cat. Afterwards, Hollyleaf tries to kill her by forcing her to eat deathberries in the ThunderClan camp. Leafpool asks Hollyleaf what would be worse: if she stayed alive, disowned by Crowfeather, living without the love of her own kits, and no longer a medicine cat, or died; Hollyleaf stops forcing her and Leafpool walks out of the medicine cat's den.[26]

In Omen of the Stars, she has become a warrior because she broke the Warrior Code by having kits. However, Jayfeather and Hollyleaf seem to view her as being incompetent as a warrior and are still furious about her deception. Lionblaze, however, seems to have forgiven her and respects and loves her as his mother. After the events of The Last Hope, she becomes a medicine cat again, sharing the role with Jayfeather.

She is also niece to Princess (Firestar's sister), half-niece to Scourge, Ruby, and Socks (Firestar's half-siblings), and Ashfur and Ferncloud (Sandstorm's half-brother and half-sister), cousin to Cloudtail (Princess' son), granddaughter to Redtail and Brindleface (Sandstorm's parents), and Jake and Nutmeg (Firestar's parents), great-niece to Willowpelt, Spottedleaf, Patchpelt, and Leopardfoot (Redtail's brother and sisters), and Dustpelt, Longtail, Ravenpaw, and Frostfur (Brindleface's brothers and sister), and great-granddaughter to Adderfang and Swiftbreeze (Redtail's parents), and Fuzzypelt and Robinwing (Brindleface's parents).

Daisy
Daisy is a beautiful cream-colored long-furred she-cat with dazzling ice blue eyes who lived at the horseplace with two other cats named Smoky and Floss. She was afraid that the twolegs (or 'Nofurs', as she initially referred to them as) at horseplace were going to take away her kits fathered by Smoky (originally named Berry, Mouse, and Hazel) because they had taken away Floss's litter, so she brought them to ThunderClan to keep them safe. Cloudtail volunteers to help teach her battle moves, and she develops feelings for him over time. She does not enjoy training and complains frequently about the safety of her kits.[3] She decides to go back to the horseplace following the badger attack in Twilight, worried that Clan life is too dangerous for her kits, but is persuaded to return to ThunderClan by her kits, Berrykit, Mousekit and Hazelkit along with Brambleclaw and Cloudtail. It is also revealed that another reason that she left is because she realizes that Cloudtail will never return her feelings for him after she sees the way he loves Brightheart, his mate.[13] Her kits trained as ThunderClan warriors and received their warrior names, Berrynose, Mousewhisker, and Hazeltail, in Outcast.[31] Daisy's first litter was fathered by Smoky, but her recent mate is Spiderleg, with whom she has two kits; Rosekit and Toadkit. In Long Shadows, it is revealed that Spiderleg and Daisy are no longer mates, and that Spiderleg "never really wanted kits in the first place."[25] Daisy is a permanent member of ThunderClan, but she is not a warrior; she remains in the nursery throughout the series to help the queens. In Fading Echoes, she becomes grandmother to Cherrykit and Molekit (Berrynose and Poppyfrost's kits).

Ferncloud
Ferncloud is a pale gray she-cat with darker flecks and pale green eyes. She is mentored by Darkstripe (and Longtail, after Darkstripe is exiled from ThunderClan) as an apprentice, Fernpaw, during the original series. In A Dangerous Path she helps to lure the dog pack away from the ThunderClan camp along with her brother, Ashpaw, to avenge the death of their mother, Brindleface.[9] She is the mate of Dustpelt, and mother of three litters: first litter: Spiderleg and Shrewpaw; second litter: Hollykit, Larchkit, and Birchfall; third litter: Foxleap and Icecloud. Unfortunately, Hollykit and Larchkit die from starvation, while Shrewpaw dies when he is run over by a monster while hunting a pheasant in Dawn.[22] Ferncloud is depicted as a gentle, motherly cat who remains in the nursery, where she is suited best. She helps to look after new kits with Daisy. Like Daisy and Goldenflower she usually doesn't leave the nursery but cares for kits. Ferncloud is also niece to Frostfur, Dustpelt and Ravenpaw, granddaughter to Robinwing and Fuzzypelt (Brindleface's parents) and Adderfang and Swiftbreeze (Redtail's parents), cousin to Cinderpelt, Brackenfur, Thornclaw and Brightheart (Frostfur's kits), grandcousin to Whitewing (Brightheart's daughter), Honeyfern, Molepaw, Poppyfrost and Cinderheart (Brackenfur's kits), great-grandcousin to Cherrypaw and Molepaw (Poppyfrost's kits) Dovewing and Ivypool (Whitewing's daughters), recently grandmother to Rosepetal and Toadstep (Spiderleg's kits), half-aunt to Squirrelflight and Leafpool (Sandstorm's daughters) and great-half-aunt to Jayfeather, Hollyleaf and Lionblaze (Leafpool's kits).

Ferncloud is killed by Brokenstar during the Great Battle and eventually is reunited with Dustpelt in StarClan.[citation needed]

Rainwhisker
A dark grey tom with blue eyes, Rainwhisker is a ThunderClan warrior first introduced in The Darkest Hour as a kit, Rainkit. He is the brother of Sorreltail and Sootfur and the son of Willowpelt and Whitestorm.[10] He is later an apprentice, Rainpaw, mentored by Cloudtail, in Firestar's Quest. As an apprentice, he was often sent to assist Cinderpelt.[11] He becomes a warrior sometime between Firestar's Quest and Midnight. It is revealed in that he was killed by a falling tree branch during a storm between Sunset and The Sight.[19] He is uncle of Sorreltail's kits, including Poppyfrost, Honeyfern (deceased) Cinderheart, and Molepaw (deceased). Rainwhisker is also nephew to Patchpelt, Leopardfoot, Spottedleaf and Redtail (Willowpelt's siblings), grandson to Swiftbreeze and Adderfang (Willowpelt's parents) and Snowfur and Thistleclaw (Whitestorm's parents), grandnephew to Rosetail, Sweetpaw (Thistleclaw's siblings) and Bluestar (Snowfur's sister), great-grandson to Windflight and Poppydawn (Thistleclaw's parents) and Moonflower and Stormtail (Snowfur's parents), great-grandnephew to Goosefeather (Moonflower's brother) and Pinestar (Poppydawn's brother), great-great-grandson to Sweetbriar (Poppydawn's mother), cousin to Tigerstar, Mistkit and Nightkit (Leopardfoot's kits), Sandstorm (Redtail's daughter) and Longtail and Greystripe (Patchpelt's kits), grandcousin to Bramblestar, Tawnypelt, Tadpole, Mothwing and Hawkfrost (Tigerstar's kits), Squirrelflight and Leafpool (Sandstorm's kits) and Feathertail, Stormfur, Briarlight, Bumblestripe, and Blossomfall (Greystripe's kits) and great-grandcousin to Dawnpelt, Tigerheart and Flametail (Tawnypelt's kits), Jayfeather, Lionblaze, and Hollyleaf (Leafpool's kits) Lark That Sings At Dawn (Lark) and Pine That Clings To Rock (Pine) (Stormfur's kits) and kin to Mistystar, Stonefur, Mosskit (Bluestar's kits), Reedwhisker, Primrosepaw, Pikepaw, and Perchkit (Mistyfoot's kits), Mallownose and Sneezepaw (Greymist's kits).

Spiderleg
Spiderleg is a long-limbed black tom with a brown underbelly and amber eyes, is briefly seen in Firestar's Quest as a kit, Spiderkit.[11] He is the son of Ferncloud and Dustpelt, and his siblings include Birchfall, Icecloud, Foxleap, Hollykit, Larchkit, and Shrewpaw, the later three being deceased. His mentor was Cloudtail, and he temporarily mentored Dawnpaw of ShadowClan when Tawnypelt and her kits briefly left ShadowClan for ThunderClan in Long Shadows. Spiderleg's former mate was Daisy and they had two kits, Rosekit and Toadkit. In Long Shadows, it is revealed that Spiderleg no longer loves Daisy and that he "never really wanted kits."[25] Spiderleg is overall a loyal warrior, but shares his sharp tongue with his father, Dustpelt, and is often one of the key characters to protest against something unusual. He shares the belief with Dustpelt, Thornclaw, and Ashfur that there are too many non-Clanborn cats in ThunderClan. He is one of the few completely "forest-blooded" cats left in ThunderClan. He is not one of the main characters, and often flits in and out of scenes in the books since his first real introduction as an apprentice, Spiderpaw, in Midnight. Spiderleg's also nephew to Ashfur (Ferncloud's brother), grandson to Brindleface (Ferncloud's mother), great-grandson to Fuzzypelt and Robinwing (Brindleface's parents), great-nephew to Frostfur (Brindleface's sister), Longtail, Dustpelt and Ravenpaw (Brindleface's brothers), uncle to Dovewing and Ivypool (Birchfall's daughters) and kin to Cinderpelt, Thornclaw, Brightheart, Brackenfur (Frostfur's kits), Whitewing (Brightheart's daughter), Poppyfrost, Honeyfern, Cinderheart and Molepaw (Brackenfur's kits).

Sootfur
Sootfur, a light grey tom with amber eyes, is a ThunderClan warrior first introduced in The Darkest Hour, the brother of Sorreltail and Rainwhisker and the son of Willowpelt and Whitestorm.[10] He was seen as an apprentice, Sootpaw, in Firestar's Quest. During the events of the book, his mother Willowpelt dies saving him from a badger.[11] Sootpaw is made a warrior, Sootfur, sometime between the events of Firestar's Quest and Midnight. Sootfur appears to be hotheaded and sometimes says somewhat rude things such as when he remarks that Squirrelflight and Brambleclaw may have made the right decision getting out of the forest when they did and when he remarks that Daisy would be too fat and lazy to run fast enough to catch mice. In the fifth book of The New Prophecy series, Twilight, Sootfur is killed during the attack of the badgers invading ThunderClan camp.[13]

Sootfur's mentor was originally Longtail, but after Longtail was blinded by a rabbit in Firestar's Quest, his mentor was changed to Thornclaw.[11] He is uncle of Sorreltail's kits, including Poppyfrost, Honeyfern,(deceased) Cinderheart, and Molepaw (deceased). Sootfur's also nephew to Patchpelt, Lepardfoot, Spottedleaf and Redtail (Willowpelt's siblings), grandson to Swiftbreeze and Adderfang (Willowpelt's parents) and Snowfur and Thistleclaw (Whitestorm's parents), grandnephew to Rosetail, Sweetpaw (Thistleclaw's siblings) and Bluestar (Snowfur's sister), great-grandson to Windflight and Poppydawn (Thistleclaw's parents) and Moonflower and Stormtail (Snowfur's parents), great-grandnephew to Goosefeather (Moonflower's brother), cousin to Tigerstar, Mistkit and Nightkit (Leopardfoot's kits), Sandstorm (Redtail's daughter), grandcousin to Brambleclaw, Tawnypelt, Tadpole, Mothwing and Hawkfrost (Tigerstar's kits) and kin to Mistyfoot, Stonefur, Mosskit (Bluestar's kits), and Reedwhisker (Mistyfoot's kit).

Sorreltail
Sorreltail, a tortoiseshell and white she-cat with amber eyes, is a ThunderClan warrior, the only daughter of Willowpelt and Whitestorm and only sister of Sootfur and Rainwhisker. Introduced in The Darkest Hour as Sorrelkit, an adventurous young kit, she followed her half-brother Darkstripe and caught him speaking to Blackfoot, the ShadowClan deputy, on ThunderClan territory during the events of the book. She was seen by Darkstripe, who then tricked her into eating deathberries to keep her quiet about his treachery. After recovering, she told Firestar what Darkstripe did to her, bringing about his exile from ThunderClan.[10]

She is an apprentice, Sorrelpaw, in Firestar's Quest, mentored by her cousin Sandstorm, although due to Sandstorm's being away from ThunderClan on the journey to find SkyClan during the events of the book, Sorrelpaw is temporarily mentored by Dustpelt.[11] In between Firestar's Quest and Midnight, Sorrelpaw is struck by a monster, injuring her shoulder. Sorrelpaw eventually recovers under Cinderpelt's care, but has to train for longer than that of a usual apprentice. In Midnight, Sorrelpaw finally receives her warrior name, Sorreltail, and becomes best friends with Leafpool. Whenever Leafpool needs to go out, she always asks Sorreltail to go with her.[27] When the four Clans reach their new lake home, Sorreltail falls in love with Brackenfur and they became mates. Sorreltail gives birth to her kits in Twilight during an unexpected badger attack, but was saved by Cinderpelt, who died trying to defend Sorreltail and her kits. In the end, she gives birth to four kits, Molepaw (dead), Poppyfrost, Honeyfern (dead), and Cinderheart, named in honor of Cinderpelt, which is ironic because Cinderheart is the reincarnated form of Cinderpelt - even though Cinderheart doesn't know it herself.[13] Later in The Forgotten Warrior, Sorreltail and Brackenfur announce that she is carrying kits again, and in the ending chapter of the book, Sorreltail gives birth to two kits, which she names Seedkit and Lilykit. After 'The Last Hope', Sorreltail dies of her wounds.

Power of Three Series
The Power of Three series covers events in the story from The Sight to Sunrise. The series is centered on the apparent children of Brambleclaw and Squirrelflight, Lionblaze, Hollyleaf, and Jayfeather, and the prophecy that was made about them.

Berrynose
Berrynose is a cream-colored tom, the son of Daisy and Smoky, the littermate of Mousewhisker and Hazeltail, and the half-brother of Rosepetal and Toadstep. He is first introduced as a young kit named Berry in Twilight. His mother, Daisy, takes him and his littermates away from the horseplace where they were born so the Twolegs inhabiting it would not take them away. After a ThunderClan patrol finds them, they join ThunderClan and Berry is given the Clan name of Berrykit.[18] He is the most adventurous of his littermates, and he accidentally ventures into a fox trap while sneaking out of camp exploring in Sunset and loses half of his tail.[13] This event causes him to be paranoid about his warrior name, afraid Firestar would give him a ridiculous name, such as 'Berrystumpytail'. He is first introduced as an apprentice, Berrypaw, in The Sight, mentored by Brambleclaw.[19] He is shown to be an arrogant and disrespectful cat similar to Darkstripe, especially after he is made a warrior in Outcast.[31] He criticizes even the littlest mistakes made by apprentices and refuses to listen to any criticism directed at him. It is revealed that Honeyfern has a crush on him. In Sunrise the two are seen getting along well and are assumed to be in love considering they were suggesting that they would have kits together. He is grief-stricken when she dies from a snake bite.[26] In the Omen of the Stars series, Berrynose is the father of Cherryfall and Molewhisker by Poppyfrost, Honeyfern's sister. Poppyfrost is extremely worried because she thinks Berrynose is still in love with Honeyfern, but it is revealed that Berrynose loves her as much, even more, and is just anxious to keep her safe.[28]

Blossomfall
A tortoiseshell she-cat with white patches on her pelt, Blossomfall is the daughter of Greystripe and Millie and the littermate of Bumblestripe and Briarlight as well as the half-sister of Feathertail and Stormfur. She was first introduced in Eclipse, along with her littermates.[32] She joined the Dark Forest to become a better warrior, but later finds out that the Dark Forest was going to kill Toadstep. Her mentor is Hazeltail. She also develops a crush on Toadstep. In Sign of the Moon, Ivypool discovers that Blossomfall is being trained in the Dark Forest. She becomes very jealous of Briarlight because Millie acts as if Briarlight is her only kit. She also has Thornclaw as her mate.

Birchfall
A light brown tabby tom, Birchfall is Birchkit and Birchpaw in the New Prophecy series, and is first seen as a warrior in The Sight.[19] Birchfall is the son of Ferncloud and Dustpelt, and as such is the brother of Spiderleg, Shrewpaw, Icecloud, Foxleap, Hollykit, and Larchkit, of which the later two are his littermates. During the destruction of the forest in The New Prophecy, his littermates, Hollykit and Larchkit, die of starvation, while his brother Shrewpaw dies when a tree cutter runs over him. As Birchkit, he makes the Great Journey across the mountains with the Clans to their new home, and becomes the first apprentice, Birchpaw, in ThunderClan's new camp.[22] He was mentored by Ashfur. Birchfall's current mate, Whitewing, stayed an apprentice waiting for Birchfall to be able to get his warrior name with her. Birchfall is also nephew to Ashfur (Ferncloud's brother), and Sandstorm (Ferncloud's half-sister), grandson to Brindleface (Ferncloud's mother), great-grandson to Robinwing and Fuzzypelt (Brindleface's parents), grandnephew to Frostfur (Brindleface's sister), and kin to Cinderpelt, Thornclaw, Brightheart, Brackenfur (Frostfur's kits), Whitewing (Brightheart's daughter), Poppyfrost, Honeyfern, Cinderheart and Molepaw (Brackenfur's kits). Birchfall fathered Dovewing and Ivypool with his mate, Whitewing. Birchfall was seen training in the Dark Forest by his daughter, Ivypool.

Briarlight
A dark brown she-cat, Briarlight is the daughter of Greystripe and Millie and the littermate of Bumblestripe and Blossomfall, as well as the half-sister of Feathertail and Stormfur. She is first introduced in Eclipse, along with her littermates.[32] She got sick with greencough when her mother, Millie, fell ill, but was in decent health by Sunrise. She is nearly bitten by a snake in Sunrise, but is saved by her cousin Honeyfern, who died.[26] In The Fourth Apprentice she is mentored by Thornclaw.[28] She becomes a warrior in Fading Echoes after being injured by a tree falling on her hind legs, permanently paralyzing them.[24]

She feels very guilty, for not being able to hunt, or patrol for her Clan (due to her broken backbone). As a result, she won't eat anything Millie brings her. Jayfeather's solution is for Briarlight to help him in his den (cleaning up herbs, making moss balls, and checking moss for bits of wood, dirt, and thorns). She also finds a small scrap of Hollyleaf's fur in The Forgotten Warrior.

Bumblestripe
A pale grey tom with dark black stripes, Bumblestripe is the son of Greystripe and Millie and the littermate of Blossomfall and Briarlight, as well as the half-brother of Feathertail and Stormfur. He is said to be the biggest kit in his litter and was named for the stripes on his back, making him look like a bumblebee. He was first introduced in Eclipse, along with his littermates.[32] In The Fourth Apprentice, he is mentored by Mousewhisker.[28] It is hinted by Blossomfall that Bumblestripe is in love with Dovewing in Sign of the Moon.[33] In The Forgotten Warrior, he is seen spending a lot of time with Dovewing and by the end of the book, he confesses to Dovewing that he wants to be more than friends. Following The Last Hope, Dovewing begins a relationship with Bumblestripe, but in Bramblestar's Storm, their relationship ends.

Cinderheart
Cinderheart, a grey tabby she-cat with blue eyes, is a ThunderClan warrior first mentioned at the end of Twilight[18] and formally introduced in The Sight.[19] She is initially revealed to be the reincarnation of Cinderpelt, the former ThunderClan medicine cat. This fact becomes clear to Leafpool in Sunset when Spottedleaf tells her where to find Cinderpelt and shows her Cinderkit. Cinderheart is not consciously aware of her situation and is very much her own character, though her personality is similar to Cinderpelt's before she was injured;[13] Jayfeather's attempts to walk in her dreams result in the personality of the original Cinderpelt revealing herself in the former ThunderClan camp in the forest, implying that Cinderpelt's spirit does indeed reside within Cinderheart's subconsciousness. Leafpool and Jayfeather are the only cats that are aware of Cinderheart's true identity; while Leafpool wants to keep it a secret from Cinderheart indefinitely, Jayfeather wants to reveal the truth to her, thus adding heat to the already obvious indifferences of these two cats (as of Night Whispers, Jayfeather has not revealed the truth to Cinderheart or anybody else).

Cinderheart and Lionblaze fall in love between Fading Echoes and Night Whispers, but she ends the relationship when Lionblaze tells her of his role in the prophecy ("There will be three, kin of your kin, who hold the power of the stars in their paws"). Jayfeather later convinces her in The Forgotten Warrior that she and Lionblaze can still become mates despite the prophecy.

Cinderheart is StarClan's answer to Cinderpelt's dreams of becoming a warrior. She becomes an apprentice under Cloudtail along with Jayfeather, Lionblaze and Hollyleaf, her best friend, and others. In an ironic twist of fate, however, she falls from a tree branch in Dark River and injures her leg, in fact the same leg that Cinderpelt injured.[34] She is able to recover partially, but reinjures it during her assessment in Eclipse and is thrown into a state of depression (Cinderpaw's desire to become a warrior is as strong as Cinderpelt's, although it is unknown whether Cinderpelt herself influenced this personality). Jayfeather teaches her to swim in order to stretch and build the muscles without straining them, and by the end of Eclipse, Cinderpaw is able to walk and run normally and receives her warrior name.[32] Cinderpelt's original destiny having been fulfilled, it is unknown whether or not Cinderheart's reincarnation will contribute to future events.

At the end of Eclipse, when she is given her warrior name, Firestar names her Cinderheart "...in honor of those warriors who have gone before."[32] It is unclear whether Firestar is referencing Cinderpelt or not. Though Cinderheart is a reincarnation of Cinderpelt, in this new life she is the daughter of Sorreltail and Brackenfur and the sister of Molepaw, who died from a sickness that didn't react to Leafpool's herbs. Poppyfrost and Honeyfern are also her siblings. Brackenfur and Cinderpelt are siblings so Cinderpelt and her reincarnation are actually related, Cinderheart being her niece. During Sunrise, Honeyfern dies, and Cinderheart is grief-stricken. She tells Hollyleaf she shouldn't have said anything at the Gathering. In "Omen of the Stars", Cinderheart is Ivypaw's mentor.[28] Cinderheart and Cinderpelt both fell in love with similar tom cats, since Lionblaze is Firestar's kin, that might also be part of Cinderheart's destiny.

In The Last Hope, she still cannot decide whether to stay a warrior or be a medicine cat as in her past life. Lionblaze confronts her and tells her that she has a destiny, but she can choose. When she chooses to be a warrior and chooses to be Lionblaze's mate, Cinderpelt's spirit comes out of her body and mouths "Thank you" to Lionblaze before she goes to StarClan.

In Bramblestar's Storm, she has three kits with Lionblaze: Hollykit, Fernkit, and Sorrelkit, later Hollytuft, Fernsong, and Sorrelstripe.

Foxleap
A reddish tabby tom, Foxleap was first introduced as a kit, Foxkit, in The Sight.[19] He is the son of Ferncloud and Dustpelt and the littermate of Icecloud as well as the brother of Shrewpaw, Hollykit, Larchkit, Spiderleg, and Birchfall. He becomes an apprentice, Foxpaw, in Outcast, and is mentored by his cousin Squirrelflight, but due to Squirrelflight's temporary departure to the Tribe of Rushing Water during the book, he is mentored by his aunt Sandstorm's cousin Sorreltail for a while.[31] His aunt Sandstorm also takes over as his mentor for Squirrelflight when she becomes ill in Long Shadows.[25] It is said that he wishes his warrior name to be Foxcatcher. Foxleap is nephew to Ashfur (Ferncloud's brother) grandson to Brindleface (Ferncloud's mother), kin to Cinderpelt, Thornclaw, Brackenfur, Brightheart (Frostfur's kits), Honeyfern, Poppyfrost, Molepaw, Cinderheart (Brackenfur's kits) and Whitewing (Brightheart's daughter). He's also uncle to Dovewing, Ivypool (Birchfall's daughters), Rosepetal and Toadstep (Spiderleg's kits).

In Bramblestar's Storm, Foxleap is said to have died of his wounds shortly after the great battle. This is confirmed in Dovewing's Silence.

Hazeltail
Hazeltail is a small grey-and-white she-cat, the daughter of Daisy and Smoky, the littermate of Berrynose and Mousewhisker, and the half-sister of Rosepetal and Toadstep. She is first introduced as a kit named Hazel in Twilight, when her mother Daisy took her and her littermates away from the horseplace where they were born so the Twolegs there would not take them away. After a ThunderClan patrol found them, they joined ThunderClan and Hazel was given the Clan name of Hazelkit.[18] In Sunset, Spottedleaf visits the nursery and shows her and Mousewhisker (then Mousekit) a butterfly, which she says they can catch, leading Leafpool to discover the truth about the RiverClan medicine cat, Mothwing.[13] She was introduced as an apprentice, Hazelpaw, in The Sight, mentored by Dustpelt,[19] and continues this apprenticeship until she becomes a warrior, Hazeltail, in Outcast, along with her littermates.[31] In Sunrise, she meets her father, Smoky, and Floss for the first time. Smoky appears proud of her and Floss is concerned when she mentions that Berrynose lost half his tail in a fox trap.[26] She was the mentor of Blossomfall.

In Bramblestar's Storm, she is said to be killed by greencough.

Hollyleaf
Hollyleaf, a slender black she-cat with green eyes, is a ThunderClan kit, apprentice and warrior introduced in The Sight.[19] She is one of the protagonists of the Power of Three series with her ThunderClan brothers Jayfeather and Lionblaze, and is on the cover of Sunrise. Initially, Hollyleaf chooses to become a medicine cat as a result of the respect she sees other cats giving Leafpool, the current medicine cat, and wants to be considered extremely important to her Clan. She abandons this choice after a short time, as she cannot remember herbs very well and gets easily disgusted when dealing with wounds and injuries. She develops an affinity for battle training and realizes that she would best serve her Clan as a warrior, and begins training under Brackenfur. Hollyleaf learned under her mentor to be incredibly loyal and devoted to follow the warrior code.[19] As a result, Hollyleaf highly disapproved of her brother Lionblaze's affinity for Heathertail, a WindClan she-cat.

Hollyleaf is considered the most cunning and bound to the warrior code of the three siblings, prone to thinking out strategies carefully rather than rushing in blindly. She is not one of the Three in the prophecy, even though both of her brothers are. As a result, she has no power. She is devoted to the warrior code and considers it to be the foundation of Clan life, and is terrified to think of a Clan operating without it. She has aspirations about becoming Clan leader, a function that she feels would best serve her Clan. Her ideologies differ from her brothers in this respect, in that she is always trying to think of what would benefit all cats and not just herself. Hollyleaf seems deeply burdened by responsibility upon learning of the prophecy concerning herself and her siblings. It was revealed in Long Shadows that Squirrelflight is not her mother. Her real parents are Leafpool and Crowfeather. In Long Shadows, Hollyleaf becomes so obsessed with the code, she scares Jayfeather at one point. At the end of the book, she kills Ashfur to stop him from telling the clans that Squirrelflight is not her mother.[25] In Sunrise, she goes mad having been the daughter of a medicine cat and a WindClan warrior thus breaking the warrior code. Eventually, in a Gathering, she reveals to every cat that Squirrelflight and Brambleclaw weren't the parents of her and Lionblaze and Jayfeather, but it was Leafpool and Crowfeather. Then, she runs into a tunnel which collapses onto her, leading most cats to believe she is dead.

She also tries to kill Leafpool by forcing her eat deathberries, but lets her go when Leafpool points out that it would be more painful for her to live on than die. Hollyleaf's extreme devotion to the warrior code eventually led to her downfall. While most thought that Hollyleaf was part of the Three, she truly was not. Rather, the three relates to Jayfeather, Lionblaze, and Dovewing. She is proven alive in The Forgotten Warrior and she returns to ThunderClan.

She is killed by Dark Forest warrior Hawkfrost while helping defeat Hawkfrost with Ivypool, who brought Hollyleaf back to ThunderClan in The Last Hope and is seen walking out with the rest of the spirits of StarClan when they retrieve Firestar to go to StarClan.

She is great-granddaughter to Jake and Nutmeg (Firestar's parents), and Redtail and Brindleface (Sandstorm's parents), she is half-sister to Breezepelt (Nightcloud's and Crowfeather's son), granddaughter to Firestar and Sandstorm (Leafpool's parents) and Ashfoot, the WindClan deputy (and Crowfeather's mother), niece to Eaglekit (Crowfeather's brother) and Squirrelflight (Leafpool's sister), grandniece to Princess (Firestar's sister), half-grand-niece to Scourge, Ruby and Socks (Firestar's half-siblings) and kin to Cloudtail (Firestar's nephew), Whitewing (Cloudtail's daughter), Dovepaw and Ivypaw (Whitewing's daughters). As her father, Crowfeather, is a direct descendant to Windstar and Gorsestar (WindClan's first and second leaders), Hollyleaf is their descendant too. She's half-WindClan, almost one-quarter ThunderClan, one-quarter kittypet, and part SkyClan, because Spottedleaf is Sandstorm's aunt. As Spottedleaf is related directly to Birdflight's (Cloudstar's mate) kits, and Sandstorm is Hollyleaf's grandmother.

Honeyfern
Honeyfern is a light brown tabby she-cat with blue eyes and the daughter of Brackenfur and Sorreltail. She is sister to Cinderheart, Poppyfrost, and Molepaw. She was first introduced as a kit, Honeykit, near the end of Twilight, and as an apprentice,[13] Honeypaw, in The Sight. She was mentored by Sandstorm, who also mentored her mother, Sorreltail.[19] She continues her apprenticeship for the rest of the series until she receives her warrior name, Honeyfern, in Eclipse.[32] It is revealed that she has a crush on Berrynose. In Sunrise Berrynose starts to return the affection. Soon after, she dies of a snake bite while saving Briarkit, however.[26] In The Fourth Apprentice, Honeyfern saves Jayfeather from Breezepelt when Breezepelt attacks the ThunderClan medicine cat at the Moonpool.[28]

Icecloud
Icecloud is a white she-cat with bright blue eyes, first introduced as a kit, Icekit, in The Sight.[19] She is the daughter of Ferncloud and Dustpelt and the littermate of Foxleap, as well as the younger sister of Spiderleg, Shrewpaw, Birchfall, Hollykit (who died before the Great Journey) and Larchkit. Icepaw and Foxpaw shared dens with Lionblaze, Jayfeather, and Hollyleaf before the three later became apprentices. She became an apprentice in Outcast, mentored by Whitewing.[31] It is said that she wishes her warrior name to be Icestorm. Icecloud is a niece to Ashfur (Ferncloud's brother), granddaughter to Brindleface (Ferncloud's mother), great-granddaughter to Robinwing and Fuzzypelt (Brindleface's parents), grandniece to Frostfur (Brindleface's sister), kin to Cinderpelt, Thornclaw, Brackenfur, Brightheart (Frostfur's kits), Honeyfern, Poppyfrost, Molepaw, Cinderheart (Brackenfur's kits) and Whitewing (Brightheart's daughter). She's also aunt to Dovepaw, Ivypaw (Birchfall's daughters), Rosepetal and Toadstep (Spiderleg's kits).

In Bramblestar's Storm, she is said to be killed by greencough.

Jayfeather
Jayfeather is a grey tabby tom with blue eyes, and he is blind.[19] He is the brother of Hollyleaf and Lionblaze as well as the half-brother of Breezepelt, and one of the protagonists of the Power of Three series with his siblings. Jayfeather is currently a full medicine cat in ThunderClan. Initially, Jayfeather wanted to become a warrior, because he desired to be just as important as his littermates to the Clan and felt that the duties of a medicine cat were insignificant compared to the glories a warrior could experience. He began warrior training under his grandmother's cousin Brightheart, but soon tired of it. He did not receive much training and barely explored ThunderClan's territory. In a rebellious act, Jayfeather decides to explore himself. This led to him walking over a cliff in the middle of WindClan's territory and falling into the lake. Luckily, a WindClan patrol consisting of Crowfeather, Heatherpaw, Breezepaw, and Whitetail was nearby, but because of this, Jayfeather is afraid of water after his father, Crowfeather, pulls him out. Later, Spottedleaf persuaded him to become a medicine cat. Jayfeather is very conscious of his condition and adamantly refuses to be treated differently because of it, as he hates the thought of being pitied.[19]

Despite his inability to see, Jayfeather's other senses are greatly magnified and he is often able to navigate just as well as any other cat. His superior sense of smell enables him to diagnose medicinal ailments instantly and from a great distance away, a trait that is obviously ideal for a medicine cat. Jayfeather is able to hear and smell cats approaching from a great distance, well before any other cat nearby. In addition to his heightened senses, Jayfeather was born with a form of extrasensory perception which enables him to read other cats' minds, as well as enter the dreams of other cats and listen in on their conversations with members of StarClan. It is shown in Outcast that this ability extends to cats who do not fall under the jurisdiction of StarClan, such as cats of the Tribe of Rushing Water.[31] Jayfeather's mind-reading abilities can be blocked, however, if the intended target is aware of his intention; Leafpool is aware of her son's ability and consciously damps her thoughts whenever she does not want him in her head. Jayfeather is also unable to read the mind of Sol because his thoughts are so rapid and many that he can't focus on him.[25]

Jayfeather's personality is somewhat on par with Yellowfang in that he is typically grumpy and easily angered. Jayfeather is the first to learn of the prophecy concerning himself and his siblings, and takes its meaning to imply that they are more important than any of the other cats and as such do not have to follow their rules. He has stumbled upon a seemingly insignificant stick which inexplicably emanates the thoughts and feelings of past members of the Ancient Clans, who used to live by the lake long ago.[32] Many fans have claimed that he had a "relationship" with it[35] until he broke it deliberately in The Fourth Apprentice, after finding out that Rock had been lying to him.[28] Jayfeather feels he is on the verge of a great discovery, the implications of which have greater importance than StarClan. He is also aware of Cinderheart's reincarnation. Despite these pieces of knowledge, Jayfeather seems to care about his Clanmates and performs quite well as a medicine cat. Jayfeather has abilities that other medicine cats don't, such as walking in other cat's dreams. One of the first times he did this was when he followed Leafpool to the Moonpool and overheard her dream. Over the course of the series he has become more tolerant of his Clanmates and less irritable, mainly due to his liberal use of mind-reading and being able to sympathize with their thoughts. It was revealed in Long Shadows that Squirrelflight is not his mother.[25] Prior to the release of Sunrise, it was rumoured Leafpool and Crowfeather are his parents because of the attitude and coloring. This is found true which leads to Hollyleaf's so-called "death" and during his naming ceremony, Leafpool felt a feeling of love to him, and, in The New Prophecy series, Leafpool and Crowfeather were alone together at one point when they ran off. He saves Firestar after he is attacked by a fox in "The Fourth Apprentice," although it was too late and he lost another life. He follows Poppyfrost (heavily pregnant with Berrynose's kits, Cherrypaw and Molepaw) to the Moonpool when she wants to see Honeyfern again, and gets attacked by Breezepelt, but Honeyfern drives him and another cat from the Dark Forest (Brokenstar) away. He is the first of the Three to learn about the battle between StarClan and the Dark Forest.[28] Jayfeather is a reincarnation of Jay's Wing, who was an ancient cat.[32] In "Long Shadows", he meets the cat he loves, Half Moon, who later becomes the first Teller of the Pointed Stones. Half Moon reappears in "The Forgotten Warrior" and says that she waits for him forever.

He is great-grandson to Jake and Nutmeg, Firestar's parents. He is also related to the leader of BloodClan, Scourge, because Firestar and Scourge are half brothers.

Lionblaze
Lionblaze, a muscular golden brown tabby tom with amber eyes and thick fur around his neck, is a protagonist of the Power of Three series with his siblings Jayfeather and Hollyleaf and is the half brother of Breezepelt, a WindClan warrior. He is secretly taught by the spirits of Tigerstar and Hawkfrost about different battle moves in Dark River. A young WindClan apprentice named Heatherpaw convinces him to form a play Clan called DarkClan inside the underground tunnels, with the leader being Heatherpaw and the deputy being Lionblaze, under the assumed names Heatherstar and Lionclaw, respectively. Lionblaze unknowingly falls in love with her, and she falls in love with him. Hollyleaf and Cinderheart find out about the meetings, and Hollyleaf threatens to tell. Lionblaze hates her nosiness. He enjoys the secret night meetings immensely, but falls behind in his training. One night, Lionblaze teaches Heatherpaw some of Tigerstar's moves and Hawkfrost gets angry, later rebuking him for teaching battle techniques to the enemy. He tells Lionblaze that Heatherpaw will probably use them against him in battle. Lionblaze is devastated, and tells Heatherpaw that he won't see her anymore. She is deeply hurt, but Lionblaze stays true to his word.[34] Soon his battle and hunting skills improve again and his mentor, Ashfur, is pleased. No one is aware of his haunted visits with his apparent grandfather and uncle, and Hollyleaf notices that his fighting skills exceed the level for normal apprentices, and Brambleclaw recognizes his father's fighting moves. She and the other apprentices are horrified as Ashfur and Lionblaze begin a dangerous sort of play-fight, where they act as if the other is an enemy. Hollyleaf notes that Ashfur looked as if he hated Lionblaze with all his heart during the fight, but afterward praised him and acted proud.[19][31][32][34] His power is the ability to remain unharmed during fighting.[31] At the end of Eclipse, Lionblaze has an argument with Tigerstar and Hawkfrost.[32] This could be because of Tigerstar's teaching method and his constant bullying if Lionblaze doesn't train the way Tigerstar wants him to or if Lionblaze tries to talk to Tigerstar and Hawkfrost about the prophecy. He is chosen to mentor Dovepaw, the last of the Three in The Fourth Apprentice. He is chosen to go find out what is causing the water not to flow along with Dovepaw, Tigerheart and Toadfoot of ShadowClan, Petalfur and Rippletail of RiverClan, and Sedgewhisker and Whitetail of WindClan.[28]

Since the beginning of the Omen of the Stars series, Lionblaze has been growing closer to Cinderheart. In Night Whispers, he asks Cinderheart if they are becoming more than friends and she agrees that they are. However, she later learns that Lionblaze is a part of the prophecy and claims that, since StarClan has chosen him to be someone with a greater destiny, she can not become his mate. She grows even more distant when her life as Cinderpelt's reincarnation is revealed. However, in The Last Hope, he confronts Cinderheart about their destinies and they become mates, while Cinderpelt's spirit finally joins StarClan.[36]

Prior to the release of Sunrise, it was speculated that Leafpool and Crowfeather were his parents. Also, in the latest "Warriors New" E-Mail, it mentioned "the parentage of a certain trio of ThunderClan cats" as well as "the shocking rumors about who might really be their mother," hinting that the rumor may be true. It was revealed in Long Shadows that Squirrelflight is not his mother, and in Sunrise that Leafpool and Crowfeather are his true parents. Lionblaze's also half-brother to Breezepelt (Crowfeather's other son), grandson to Firestar and Sandstorm (Leafpool's parents) and Ashfoot, the ex-WindClan deputy (and Crowfeather's mother), nephew to Eaglekit (Crowfeather's brother) and Squirrelflight (Leafpool's sister), grandnephew to Princess (Firestar's sister),great-grandson to Jake and Nutmeg (Firestar's parents), half-grandnephew to Scourge, Ruby, and Socks (Firestar's half-siblings) and Ashfur and Ferncloud (Sandstorm's half-siblings) and kin to Cloudtail (Firestar's nephew), Whitewing (Cloudtail's daughter), Dovewing and Ivypool (Whitewing's daughters). He is also kin to Tigerstar, Nightkit and Mistkit (Sandstorm's cousin). He is father to Hollytuft, Sorrelstripe, and Fernsong (Cinderheart's kits). As his father, Crowfeather, is a direct descendant to Wind and Gorsestar (WindClan's first and second leaders), Lionblaze is their descendant too. He's half WindClan, a quarter ThunderClan, a quarter kittypet and a part SkyClan, because Sandstorm's aunt is Spottedleaf. He is the reincarnation of Lion's Roar, an ancient Tribe cat.

Mousewhisker
Mousewhisker is a grey-and-white tom, the son of Daisy and Smoky, the brother of Berrynose and Hazeltail, and the half-brother of Rosepetal and Toadstep. He was first introduced as a kit named Mouse in Twilight, when his mother Daisy took him and his littermates away from the horseplace where they were born so the Twolegs there would not take them away. After a ThunderClan patrol found them, they joined ThunderClan and Mouse was given the Clan name of Mousekit.[18] In Sunset, Spottedleaf visits the nursery and shows him and Hazelkit a butterfly, which she says they can hunt, leading Leafpool to discover the truth about the RiverClan medicine cat, Mothwing.[13] He is later an apprentice, Mousepaw, in The Sight, mentored by Spiderleg,[19] and becomes a warrior, Mousewhisker, in Outcast.[31] In the battle in Eclipse he wounds his eye so Hollypaw guides him out of battle.[32] He was the mentor of Bumblestripe. He also trains in the Dark Forest.

Millie
Millie is a silver tabby she-cat, a former kittypet. She is first formally introduced in The Sight (first book in the Power of Three series), when she and her mate Greystripe show up on the island that the Clan cats use for Gatherings. Though all the cats in every Clan were glad to see Greystripe alive, they were worried about his ki